BUT I GUESS
WE ARE WE'RE WE'RE PRETTY LOW
ON THE NEWS TODAY.
>> YES.
SMALL BUT MIGHTY.
THAT'S RIGHT.
WE'VE ALSO DONE YEAH, I.
>> I DON'T.
THUS FAR WE DON'T HAVE A QUORUM
SO IF WE DON'T HAVE OR WE CAN'T
ACTUALLY VOTE ON ANY ANY MAJOR
THING BUT WE CAN STILL HAVE OUR
MEETING SO I DON'T THINK WE HAD
ANY VOTES SLATED.
>> SO IT'S PROBABLY GOOD
TIMING, PERFECT TIMING THING.
>> AND STEPHANIE DID OFFICIALLY
PUT IN HER LETTER
OF RESIGNATION.
SO WE'RE JUST WAITING FOR THE
MAYOR TO AUTHORIZE A NEW DAILY
VENDOR REPRESENTATIVE SO WE
SHALL SEE.
I'VE NO I DO NOT HAVE ANY MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE TIMELINE
ON THAT BUT HOPEFULLY IT WILL
BE DONE SOON.
>> LET'S GO AHEAD AND GET
STARTED.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I'LL CALL IT TO ORDER.
SO IT IS A MARKET ADVISORY
COMMISSION AND TODAY IS MARCH
16TH.
THE TIME
IS FIVE THIRTY THREE
P.M. SO THE ROLL CALL.
>> ALL RIGHT, COMMISSIONER
WOLFE HERE, COMMISSIONER
FARRELL, I'M HERE.
OK.
AND COMMISSIONER MOEMA AND
YOUNG ARE ABSENT AS OF RIGHT.
BUT JEFF COULD STILL POP ON.
>> WE NEVER KNOW.
YOU NEVER KNOW.
OK, SO ITEMS APPROVAL AGENDA
WE'VE HAD A CHANCE TO LOOK AT
THE AGENDA WHERE THERE ARE
THERE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
HI, JEFF.
HELLO.
OR JUST DOING APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA ITEMS HOPEFULLY A CHANCE
TO LOOK OVER THAT AND SEE IF
THERE ARE ANY CHANGES OR
MODIFICATIONS OF THE DO I HAVE
A MOTION TO APPROVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE?
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECOND ALL
IN FAVOR SAY AY AY AY.
>> ALL RIGHT.
OK, SO THEN MOVING ON TO ITEM
FIRST PUBLIC COMMENTARY.
>> YES.
ARE THERE ANY MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC THAT WOULD LIKE TO
PROVIDE PUBLIC COMMENTARY AT
THIS TIME?
>> I SEE A HAND.
ALL RIGHT.
GO AHEAD AND ON MUTE YOURSELF
AND FEEL FREE TO HELLO.
HELLO.
>> HELLO.
THIS IS DARLENE AND YOU ALL
HAVE RECEIVED A COPY OF A
LETTER THAT I'M SUBMITTING
ALONG WITH OTHER VENDORS.
WE THERE AREN'T A LOT OF PEOPLE
IN AMERICA RIGHT NOW.
SO OF THOSE WHO WERE THERE,
SEVERAL SIGNED AND THERE WERE A
FEW THAT WE MADE PHONE CALLS
AND THEY SAID PUT THEIR NAME ON
THERE IF YOU WANT TO CHECK WITH
THEM, YOU'RE WELCOME TO DO THAT
.
AND I JUST HOPE THE COMMISSION
WILL SERIOUSLY CONSIDER THIS IN
LIGHT OF THE FACT THAT THERE'S
BEEN SO MANY RETIREMENTS
OF PRODUCERS OF VEGETABLES AND
PLANTS IN PARTICULAR OVER THE
LAST NUMBER OF YEARS AND THERE
ARE MORE COMING NOW.
THE OTHER THING TO THINK ABOUT
JUST AS WITH THE CRAFTER'S
ALLOWING THEM TO HAVE TWO
STALLS, THERE WERE NOT A LARGE
NUMBER OF THEM.
I THINK THAT'S ALSO THE CASE
FOR PRODUCE VEGETABLE, FRUIT
AND PLANT VENDORS.
I DON'T THINK THERE WOULD BE A
HUGE NUMBER WHO WOULD ACTUALLY
WANT TO PAY AND NEED FORESTALLS
.
>> SO THANK YOU SPROING
ALL RIGHT.
AND THAT IS ON THE AGENDA FOR
LATER ON IN THE MEETING TO
DISCUSS THAT LETTER
IS THAT ALL
THE ALL THE PUBLIC THAT'S ON
THEIR PUBLIC COMMENT I AM
SEEING YES.
>> OK, SO THEN WE'LL MOVE ON TO
ITEM APPROVAL MINUTES FROM
PREVIOUS MEETINGS.
SO YOU SHOULD RECEIVE THOSE AND
LOOK OVER THEM AND SEE IF THERE
ARE ANY CHANGES, MODIFICATIONS,
SUGGESTIONS, CORRECTIONS
.
I DIDN'T SEE ANY MYSELF EITHER
SO HEARING NONE.
>> IS THERE A MOTION TO APPROVE
A MOTION TO YOU?
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
IS THERE A SECOND ERIC?
YES.
SORRY I WAS NEEDED FOR THE ALL
IN FAVOR SAY AY AY.
ALL RIGHT.
>> GREAT.
SO NOW MOVING ON TO ITEM G
ALL RIGHT.
REGULAR BUSINESS AGENDA ITEMS
SO NOW MOVING ON TO ITEM G
TO UPDATE EVERYONE IN TERMS
REGULAR BUSINESS AGENDA ITEMS
OF WHAT WE'VE BEEN WORKING ON
TO UPDATE EVERYONE IN TERMS
MARCH 1ST WAS THE DEADLINE FOR
OF WHAT WE'VE BEEN WORKING ON
RETURNING VENDOR APPLICATIONS
MARCH 1ST WAS THE DEADLINE FOR
TO GET IN.
RETURNING VENDOR APPLICATIONS
NOT REALLY ANY SURPRISES THERE
TO GET IN.
IN TERMS OF WHO HAD HOURS AND
NOT REALLY ANY SURPRISES THERE
THERE WERE A FEW ISSUES DUE TO
IN TERMS OF WHO HAD HOURS AND
POWER LOSSES FROM THE ICE STORM
THERE WERE A FEW ISSUES DUE TO
AND FOLLOWING SNOWSTORM.
POWER LOSSES FROM THE ICE STORM
SO WE DID GIVE PEOPLE A FEW
AND FOLLOWING SNOWSTORM.
DAYS OF WIGGLE ROOM BECAUSE
SO WE DID GIVE PEOPLE A FEW
THEY EITHER PHYSICALLY COULD
DAYS OF WIGGLE ROOM BECAUSE
NOT DRIVE IT TO US OR WE'RE
THEY EITHER PHYSICALLY COULD
UNABLE TO PRINT OUT ANY OR
NOT DRIVE IT TO US OR WE'RE
WITHOUT ANY ADDITIONAL
UNABLE TO PRINT OUT ANY OR
DOCUMENTS THAT THEY NEED TO
WITHOUT ANY ADDITIONAL
INCLUDE WITH IT.
DOCUMENTS THAT THEY NEED TO
SO SO THAT WAS THAT.
INCLUDE WITH IT.
BUT WE HAVE MOVED ON THE NEXT
SO SO THAT WAS THAT.
STEP FOR THAT IS WE WILL BE
BUT WE HAVE MOVED ON THE NEXT
SENDING OUT INVOICES FOR OUR
STEP FOR THAT IS WE WILL BE
ANNUAL VENDORS AS WELL AS ALL
SENDING OUT INVOICES FOR OUR
RETURNING VENDORS AT SOME POINT
ANNUAL VENDORS AS WELL AS ALL
THIS MONTH.
RETURNING VENDORS AT SOME POINT
WE ARE WORKING WITH THE FINANCE
THIS MONTH.
DEPARTMENT SO IT'S BASED ON
WE ARE WORKING WITH THE FINANCE
THEIR SCHEDULE WHEN THOSE
DEPARTMENT SO IT'S BASED ON
INVOICES GO OUT BUT THAT SHOULD
THEIR SCHEDULE WHEN THOSE
BE BY THE END OF THE MONTH AND
INVOICES GO OUT BUT THAT SHOULD
THEN THE YEARLY PAYMENT
BE BY THE END OF THE MONTH AND
DEADLINE WILL BE JUNE 30TH, THE
THEN THE YEARLY PAYMENT
LAST DAY OF THE CURRENT FISCAL
DEADLINE WILL BE JUNE 30TH, THE
YEAR.
LAST DAY OF THE CURRENT FISCAL
BUT THAT WAS I BELIEVE ALL ALL
YEAR.
OF THE REPORT I HAD FROM THAT
BUT THAT WAS I BELIEVE ALL ALL
GREAT.
OF THE REPORT I HAD FROM THAT
YEAH.
GREAT.
SO THAT'S WE'RE TO THE AND THEN
YEAH.
NEW VENDOR RECRUITMENT.
SO THAT'S WE'RE TO THE AND THEN
>> YES.
NEW VENDOR RECRUITMENT.
SO RELATED TO THAT WE'RE ALSO
>> YES.
IN A TIME OF YEAR WHERE WE'RE
SO RELATED TO THAT WE'RE ALSO
GETTING A TON OF APPLICANTS.
IN A TIME OF YEAR WHERE WE'RE
WE HAVE ALREADY BROUGHT ON
GETTING A TON OF APPLICANTS.
THREE NEW VENDORS, ONE OF WHICH
WE HAVE ALREADY BROUGHT ON
HAS ALREADY STARTED.
THREE NEW VENDORS, ONE OF WHICH
THEY ARE A LIVESTOCK FARM WHICH
HAS ALREADY STARTED.
WILL ALSO PRODUCE IN THE
THEY ARE A LIVESTOCK FARM WHICH
SUMMERTIME.
WILL ALSO PRODUCE IN THE
THEY ALSO DO SOME COTTAGE FOOD
SUMMERTIME.
IN TERMS OF BREADS, SOME FREEZE
THEY ALSO DO SOME COTTAGE FOOD
DRIED ITEMS, THINGS LIKE THAT.
IN TERMS OF BREADS, SOME FREEZE
WE ALSO HAVE A NEW FLOWER FARMS
DRIED ITEMS, THINGS LIKE THAT.
THAT WILL BE COMING JUST FOR
WE ALSO HAVE A NEW FLOWER FARMS
WEDNESDAY MARKET THIS YEAR.
THAT WILL BE COMING JUST FOR
THEY ARE ACTUALLY A REFERRAL
WEDNESDAY MARKET THIS YEAR.
FROM STEPHANIE GUILLET AND THEY
THEY ARE ACTUALLY A REFERRAL
CURRENTLY DO THE HALAL MARKET
FROM STEPHANIE GUILLET AND THEY
BUT THEY'RE LOOKING FOR NOT
CURRENTLY DO THE HALAL MARKET
ANOTHER UNWORKABILITY THE WEEK
BUT THEY'RE LOOKING FOR NOT
MARKET.
ANOTHER UNWORKABILITY THE WEEK
SO THAT WILL BE GREAT BECAUSE
MARKET.
IT WILL HELP BUILD A LITTLE BIT
SO THAT WILL BE GREAT BECAUSE
OF THE VOID BUT THE BY THE
IT WILL HELP BUILD A LITTLE BIT
BULGERS AND PAT SPOOKIES BEING
OF THE VOID BUT THE BY THE
AVAILABLE ANY LONGER AT MARKET
BULGERS AND PAT SPOOKIES BEING
WE HAVE ANOTHER NEW PRODUCER
AVAILABLE ANY LONGER AT MARKET
WHO IS ACTUALLY GLUTEN FREE
WE HAVE ANOTHER NEW PRODUCER
BAKERY.
WHO IS ACTUALLY GLUTEN FREE
THEY WILL BE STARTING HOPEFULLY
BAKERY.
SOMETIME NEXT MONTH.
THEY WILL BE STARTING HOPEFULLY
THEY ARE CURRENTLY VENDORS AT
SOMETIME NEXT MONTH.
THE SELINE MARKET AS WELL AS
THEY ARE CURRENTLY VENDORS AT
KATTEN AND OTHER FOURTH ONE
THE SELINE MARKET AS WELL AS
THAT WE'VE ALREADY LET.
KATTEN AND OTHER FOURTH ONE
THEY ARE A BEVERAGE COMPANY AND
THAT WE'VE ALREADY LET.
THEY MAKE SHRUB'S SO WHAT THAT
THEY ARE A BEVERAGE COMPANY AND
IS IS A VINEGAR DRINK AND
THEY MAKE SHRUB'S SO WHAT THAT
THEY'RE REALLY EXCITING.
IS IS A VINEGAR DRINK AND
THEY USE ALL LOCAL FRUITS AND
THEY'RE REALLY EXCITING.
OTHER PRODUCE AND HERBS AND
THEY USE ALL LOCAL FRUITS AND
STUFF TO MAKE THOSE BEVERAGES
OTHER PRODUCE AND HERBS AND
AND WE HOPE TO BE WELCOMING
STUFF TO MAKE THOSE BEVERAGES
THEM AT SOME POINT AS WELL THIS
AND WE HOPE TO BE WELCOMING
YEAR.
THEM AT SOME POINT AS WELL THIS
SO THOSE THE FOUR THAT WE'VE
YEAR.
ALREADY LET IN WE HAVE A STACK
SO THOSE THE FOUR THAT WE'VE
OF ABOUT A LOT TO SAY.
ALREADY LET IN WE HAVE A STACK
FIFTEEN APPLICANTS STILL
OF ABOUT A LOT TO SAY.
WAITING AND THAT'S A MIXED BAG
FIFTEEN APPLICANTS STILL
ANYTHING FROM OTHER PRODUCE
WAITING AND THAT'S A MIXED BAG
FORMS TO DOG TREATS TO OTHER
ANYTHING FROM OTHER PRODUCE
VARIOUS FOOD ITEMS THAT WE NEED
FORMS TO DOG TREATS TO OTHER
TO STILL GO THROUGH.
VARIOUS FOOD ITEMS THAT WE NEED
WE ALSO HAVE ONE OF OUR
TO STILL GO THROUGH.
PREPARED FOOD VENDORS THAT
WE ALSO HAVE ONE OF OUR
WANTS TO BECOME A REAL VENDOR.
PREPARED FOOD VENDORS THAT
SO THAT'S RIGHT SPACE KITCHEN
WANTS TO BECOME A REAL VENDOR.
WHO IS WITH US FOR A LOT OF THE
SO THAT'S RIGHT SPACE KITCHEN
POP UPS LAST YEAR AS WELL AS
WHO IS WITH US FOR A LOT OF THE
SOME OF OUR RALLIES.
POP UPS LAST YEAR AS WELL AS
SO THAT'S EXCITING BUT THAT'S
SOME OF OUR RALLIES.
SORT OF ON OUR AGENDA FOR THE
SO THAT'S EXCITING BUT THAT'S
NEXT COUPLE OF WEEKS IS GETTING
SORT OF ON OUR AGENDA FOR THE
THROUGH THIS LARGE STACK
NEXT COUPLE OF WEEKS IS GETTING
OF APPLICANTS ORIENTING PEOPLE
THROUGH THIS LARGE STACK
GETTING PEOPLE STARTED SO THAT
OF APPLICANTS ORIENTING PEOPLE
SHOULD BE SHOULD BE GREAT.
GETTING PEOPLE STARTED SO THAT
AND AGAIN, WE DO HAVE A LARGE
SHOULD BE SHOULD BE GREAT.
NUMBER OF A DIFFERENT ALL SORTS
AND AGAIN, WE DO HAVE A LARGE
OF DIFFERENT TYPE OF PEOPLE
NUMBER OF A DIFFERENT ALL SORTS
OBVIOUSLY WE'RE REALLY EXCITED
OF DIFFERENT TYPE OF PEOPLE
WHEN WE SEE FARMS APPLYING LESS
OBVIOUSLY WE'RE REALLY EXCITED
EXCITED WHEN WE SEE FIVE
WHEN WE SEE FARMS APPLYING LESS
BAKERIES IN A ROW BUT WE
EXCITED WHEN WE SEE FIVE
OF COURSE PRIORITIZE PEOPLE
BAKERIES IN A ROW BUT WE
THAT WILL BOTH BE WITH US FOR
OF COURSE PRIORITIZE PEOPLE
THE WHOLE SEASON AS WELL AS
THAT WILL BOTH BE WITH US FOR
PEOPLE IF IT'S PREPARED FOOD OR
THE WHOLE SEASON AS WELL AS
VALUE ADD FOOD THAT THEY ARE
PEOPLE IF IT'S PREPARED FOOD OR
SOURCING LOCAL INGREDIENTS AS
VALUE ADD FOOD THAT THEY ARE
MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
SOURCING LOCAL INGREDIENTS AS
SO THOSE ARE SORT OF OUR
MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
CRITERIA IN TERMS OF FARMS.
SO THOSE ARE SORT OF OUR
YOU KNOW, NOT ALL FARMS ARE
CRITERIA IN TERMS OF FARMS.
CREATED EQUAL IN TERMS OF WHO
YOU KNOW, NOT ALL FARMS ARE
IS APPLYING NEWER PEOPLE
CREATED EQUAL IN TERMS OF WHO
WITHOUT EXPERIENCE.
IS APPLYING NEWER PEOPLE
I HAVE A HARD TIME BRINGING
WITHOUT EXPERIENCE.
THEM ON SIMPLY BECAUSE THE
I HAVE A HARD TIME BRINGING
VOLUME NEEDED TO BE AT OUR
THEM ON SIMPLY BECAUSE THE
MARKET IS HARD AND I DON'T WANT
VOLUME NEEDED TO BE AT OUR
TO KIND OF SET PEOPLE UP FOR
MARKET IS HARD AND I DON'T WANT
FAILURE BEFORE WE GET STARTED.
TO KIND OF SET PEOPLE UP FOR
BUT I THINK EVEN THOUGH THERE
FAILURE BEFORE WE GET STARTED.
ARE A LOT OF RETIREMENTS THAT
BUT I THINK EVEN THOUGH THERE
HAVE HAPPENED AND ARE GOING TO
ARE A LOT OF RETIREMENTS THAT
CONTINUE HAPPENING, WE ALSO
HAVE HAPPENED AND ARE GOING TO
HAVE A HIGH VOLUME OF VENDORS
CONTINUE HAPPENING, WE ALSO
ALSO WANTING TO GET INTO THE
HAVE A HIGH VOLUME OF VENDORS
MARKET INCLUDING FARMERS AND
ALSO WANTING TO GET INTO THE
PRODUCERS.
MARKET INCLUDING FARMERS AND
SO I THINK WE'RE IN GOOD SHAPE
PRODUCERS.
.
SO I THINK WE'RE IN GOOD SHAPE
>> THAT'S GOOD.
.
THAT'S GOOD.
>> THAT'S GOOD.
IS THAT ACTUALLY HOW'S THAT
THAT'S GOOD.
GOING RELATIVE TO THE EXTREME
IS THAT ACTUALLY HOW'S THAT
COVID THAT WE HAD A BIG
GOING RELATIVE TO THE EXTREME
DOWNTURN IN THAT AND HOW THAT
COVID THAT WE HAD A BIG
COMPARES TO PREVIOUS PRE COVID
DOWNTURN IN THAT AND HOW THAT
KIND OF APPLICATION RATES?
COMPARES TO PREVIOUS PRE COVID
>> IT'S HARD TO SAY AND IT'S
KIND OF APPLICATION RATES?
NOT THAT WE HAD A DOWNTURN
>> IT'S HARD TO SAY AND IT'S
DURING COVID REMEMBER THAT WE
NOT THAT WE HAD A DOWNTURN
DID A COMPLETE MORATORIUM ON
DURING COVID REMEMBER THAT WE
LETTING PEOPLE IN FOR A YEAR
DID A COMPLETE MORATORIUM ON
BECAUSE WE WANTED TO MAKE SURE
LETTING PEOPLE IN FOR A YEAR
THERE WAS ENOUGH SPACE BETWEEN
BECAUSE WE WANTED TO MAKE SURE
EVERYONE.
THERE WAS ENOUGH SPACE BETWEEN
SO IT'S HARD TO SAY I DON'T
EVERYONE.
KNOW WHAT IT IS LIKE FROM YEARS
SO IT'S HARD TO SAY I DON'T
PRIOR AND THAT'S THE THINGS
KNOW WHAT IT IS LIKE FROM YEARS
LIKE WE ALWAYS GET A HIGH
PRIOR AND THAT'S THE THINGS
VOLUME OF APPLICANTS.
LIKE WE ALWAYS GET A HIGH
RIGHT.
VOLUME OF APPLICANTS.
IT'S VERY RARE THAT WE EVEN
RIGHT.
HAVE TO DO RECRUITMENT ALTHOUGH
IT'S VERY RARE THAT WE EVEN
OBVIOUSLY WE WOULD LOVE TO DO
HAVE TO DO RECRUITMENT ALTHOUGH
MORE TARGETED RECRUITMENT TO
OBVIOUSLY WE WOULD LOVE TO DO
FARMS AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
MORE TARGETED RECRUITMENT TO
BUT IT SEEMS TO BE KEEPING PACE
FARMS AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
AND I THINK THE ONLY REAL DIP
BUT IT SEEMS TO BE KEEPING PACE
WAS REALLY BECAUSE OF EITHER
AND I THINK THE ONLY REAL DIP
PEOPLE THAT WERE TAKING THE
WAS REALLY BECAUSE OF EITHER
PANDEMIC OFF OR USING THAT AS
PEOPLE THAT WERE TAKING THE
AN OPPORTUNITY TO RETIRE OR WE
PANDEMIC OFF OR USING THAT AS
JUST DIDN'T LET PEOPLE IN FOR A
AN OPPORTUNITY TO RETIRE OR WE
WHOLE YEAR.
JUST DIDN'T LET PEOPLE IN FOR A
SO BUT I CAN FIND SOME MORE
WHOLE YEAR.
INFORMATION TO ANSWER THAT BUT
SO BUT I CAN FIND SOME MORE
THAT IS ALL I HAVE ON THAT ITEM
INFORMATION TO ANSWER THAT BUT
RIGHT.
THAT IS ALL I HAVE ON THAT ITEM
>> SO THEN MOVING ON TO
RIGHT.
STACKING UP.
>> SO THEN MOVING ON TO
YEP.
STACKING UP.
SO SADLY I MENTIONED LAST TIME
THAT MACIE HAD TO MOVE ON DUE
TO OTHER TIME RESPONSIBILITIES
BETWEEN GRAD SCHOOL AND HER
OTHER JOB.
WE HAVE HIRED A NEW PERSON.
SHE HAS NOT MADE IT THROUGH THE
ONBOARDING PROCESS COMPLETELY
YET WE WE ANTICIPATE THAT
SHOULD BE RELATIVELY QUICK.
WE HOPE THAT SHE'LL BE STARTING
YOU KNOW, EITHER NEXT WEEK OR
THE WEEK AFTER.
THIS IS ANOTHER PERSON WHO
COMES TO US WITH NOT THE SAME
BACKGROUND AS MACY BUT SIMILAR
ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE
BACKGROUND WHO HAS WORKED IN
THE PAST FOR THE WASHOE COUNTY
CONSERVATION DISTRICT IS
ORIGINALLY FROM MANCHESTER BUT
IS A CURRENT U OF M STUDENT AND
IS VERY, VERY PASSIONATE ABOUT
FARMLAND PRESERVATION AND
KEEPING LOCAL FARMS VIBRANT.
SO ALEX AND I BOTH THOUGHT SHE
WAS A PERFECT FIT AND OF COURSE
INVITE HER TO PARTICIPATE AND
INTRODUCE HERSELF WHEN SHE HAS
STARTED.
BUT WE'RE PRETTY MUCH JUST
WAITING FOR THE HUMAN RESOURCES
TIMELINE TO BE COMPLETED WITH
HER FOOT ON OUR END EVERYTHING
IS WE ARE JUST WAITING SO IT'S
GREAT NEWS .
THE UPSIDE AS WELL IS THAT SHE
WILL BE A TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE
MEANING THAT THAT TRIGGERS THAT
TEN MONTH ONTO OFF CYCLE.
BUT THIS HAS A BETTER TIMING
FOR US OF WHEN THAT TIME OFF
WILL FALL BECAUSE IT WILL BE
FOLLOWING MID-JANUARY THROUGH
MID-MARCH WHICH IS OBVIOUSLY WE
DON'T NEED THREE PEOPLE
STOPPING MARKET IN THE COLD
FLOW TIMES OF YEAR.
SO THAT WILL SORT OF HELP THAT
A LITTLE BIT AS WELL.
AND I BRING THAT UP TOO BECAUSE
WE DID HAVE SOME OTHER
CANDIDATES THAT WERE QUALITY
THAT WORKED FOR OTHER
DEPARTMENTS IN THE CITY WHICH
THEIR TIMING WOULD NOT HAVE
WORKED AS WELL WITH.
>> ALSO THE SILVER LINING
OF COURSE WE MISS MACY.
SHE WAS A GREAT ASSET BUT WE
BELIEVE THE NEW PERSON WILL BE
EQUALLY GREAT AND WE DID JUST
TO GIVE MORE CONTEXT WE DID
INTERVIEW SIX APPLICANTS OUT
OF A POOL OF FIFTEEN PEOPLE
APPLYING SO IT WAS PRETTY GOOD
.
THAT'S GREAT.
THAT'S GREAT CURIOSITY TOO.
I KNOW THAT THERE WAS
DISCUSSION BEFORE ABOUT
LEGALITIES THIS YEAR.
BOTH THESE VISIONS ARE A TEN
MONTH POSITIONS AND TRYING TO
WRITE ADVOCATE FOR TRYING TO
GET SOMETHING TRANSITION TO A
FULL YEAR IS ANY IS THERE ANY
UPDATE ON THAT OR IS THAT STILL
IT'S STILL THE SAME SITUATION.
I KNOW THAT IN TERMS OF PARKS
THERE WAS ONE STAFF PERSON
FORGIVE THREE SIXTY FIVE IT DID
MAKE THE TRANSITION FROM
TEMPORARY TO REGULAR STAFF.
SO IT'S NOT COMPLETELY OFF THE
TABLE BUT IT IS JUST A REALLY
SLOW PROCESS SO WE'RE STILL
HOPING FOR THAT EVENTUALLY.
BUT FOR RIGHT NOW ALEX IS
TEMPORARY BUT FULL TIME BECAUSE
OF PLUS ADDING HIS HOURS TO THE
INSPECTION PROCESS AND OTHER
THINGS SO THAT'S STILL IN THE
LONG TERM GOAL.
BUT THE SHORT TERM WE'RE STILL
WAITING.
SOUNDS GOOD TO THEN ITEM THESE
EVENTS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
EVENTS SO WE ARE HOPING TO HIT
THE GROUND RUNNING WITH AN EVEN
MORE FULL EVENTS CALENDAR.
SO LITTLE BY LITTLE WE'RE
GETTING BACK TO WHERE WE HAD
BEEN PRIOR TO THE PANDEMIC.
OUR FIRST EVENT WHICH IS MAYBE
A BIT LIKE A SOFT OPENING
OF EVENTS WE COULD SAY BECAUSE
THERE'S NOT MUCH PROGRAM FOR IT
BUT IT'S COMING UP ON APRIL 1ST
THAT IS OUR SO CALLED CSA DAY.
IT'S JUST AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MARKET SHOPPERS DURING SATURDAY
MARKET TO LEARN ABOUT THE FARMS
THAT ARE OFFERING COURSES
WHETHER THAT IS GETS FOR
EXAMPLE CHANTREY OR ALL THE
OTHER ONES AND THIS IS BOTH FOR
GENERAL MARKET CUSTOMERS AS
WELL AS FOR THE CITY CSA
PROGRAM WHICH IS FOR CITY
EMPLOYEES AND WE HAVE PARTNERED
AGAIN WITH THE SENIOR CENTER TO
TRY AND GET THE WORD OUT ABOUT
THE CSA OPPORTUNITIES FOR CITY
EMPLOYEES TRYING TO GET
DIFFERENT SITES INVOLVED.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE'RE
TRYING TO RAISE THE PROFILE
OF THAT A LITTLE BIT BUT I'M
STILL WAITING FOR THE FINAL
FLIER FROM THE PARKS DESIGNER
AND THEN WE WILL BE MARKETING
THAT.
I WOULD HAVE ENJOYED BEING ABLE
TO START MARKETING AND GET A
LITTLE SOONER BUT I WAS OUT
OF TOWN AND WE'RE STILL WAITING
FOR HER SO NO PROBLEM.
BUT THAT'S OUR FIRST EVENT
REALLY OF THIS YEAR COMING UP,
THE SECOND BIG EVENT WILL BE
FLOWER DAY WHICH IS GOING TO BE
AGAIN THE SUNDAY OF MEMORIAL
DAY WEEKEND.
AND THEN I MIGHT HAVE PROBABLY
MENTIONED LAST TIME THAT WE'RE
COMING BACK FOR FOR FOOD TRUCK
RALLY.
WE'VE JUST SENT OUT OUR FIRST
ROUND OF ACCEPTANCES TO THOSE
FOLKS TODAY AND WE ARE HOPING
TO HAVE A MINIMUM OF FIFTEEN
CARTS AND TRUCKS EACH TIME WITH
LIVE MUSIC AND OTHER ADDITIONAL
EVENTS AND INFORMATION BOOTHS
AS AVAILABLE.
AND THEN OF COURSE WE WILL BE
HAVING OUR COOKING DEMOS
RETURNING IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
EDIBLE WHILE WE'RE STILL
WAITING FOR A SPECIFIC CALENDAR
FOR THEM.
BUT WE DID GIVE US GIVE THEM
OUR SORT OF DREAM SCHEDULE
OF WHICH PRODUCE ITEMS FOR
FRUIT OR VEGETABLE COULD BE
FEATURED IN THE MENU ITEMS THAT
THEY ARE PREPARING FOR MORE
INFORMATION FORTHCOMING.
>> THE LAST EVENT WHICH IS SORT
OF A SPECIAL EVENT TOUR THAT
THE SOUTHFIELD PARKS DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZED WITH US THEY HAVE A
GROUP OF SENIORS COMING THAT
ARE AFFILIATED WITH SOUTHFIELD
PARKS IN THE BEGINNING OF MAY
AND THEY'RE ACTUALLY GOING TO
BE HAVING THEIR OWN MARKET TOUR
AS WELL AS I BELIEVE COOKING
DEMO JUST FOR THEM.
BUT OF COURSE EVERYONE ELSE CAN
VIEW IT AND THAT'S GOING TO BE
DURING WEDNESDAY MARKET I
BELIEVE THE SECOND WEDNESDAY
MARKET OF THE YEAR.
SO THAT'S OUR SORT SHORT
CALENDAR AS OF RIGHT NOW I'M
SURE THINGS WILL BE FILLED IN
AS THEY COME BUT WE'RE MOVING
FORWARD RIGHT NOW AND IN TERMS
OF EVENTS THAT AREN'T ORGANIZED
BY US BUT ARE HAPPENING AT OUR
SPACE, THE MOON IS COMING UP ON
APRIL SEVEN.
THAT WILL BE FRIDAY.
THEY'RE USING THE MARKET SPACE
FOR THE LUMINARIES.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE A
LITTLE BIT OF A DIFFERENT
FORMAT IN PREVIOUS YEARS.
I DON'T THINK THEY'RE DOING THE
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S A PARADE
PER SAY IF THAT'S ON THE OTHER
DAY BUT IT'S GOING TO BE MOSTLY
JUST IN CARRIE TOWN AND MARKET
LOCATIONS.
THOSE ARE GREAT SOUNDS LIKE A
GOOD LINEUP.
YES.
YEP, YEP.
THAT'S RIGHT.
THAT'S OK THEN MOVING ON TO
FACILITY REPAIRS.
>> OK, GREAT.
SO YESTERDAY ALEX, I DID A WALK
THROUGH WITH OUR BOSS JOSH AS
WELL AS THE OPERATIONS MANAGER
SCOTT TO TALK ABOUT REPAIRS
THAT WE'RE GOING TO NEED TO DO
THIS SPRING AT THE MARKET.
YOU KNOW, A LOT OF IT'S THE
USUAL STUFF LIKE SOMEONE BACK
THEIR TRUCK INTO A DOWNSPOUT OR
HIT A GUTTER OR THERE'S
CRUMBLING CONCRETE ALL OVER THE
PLACE OR THERE'S OUTLETS THAT
DON'T WORK.
SOMEONE BROKE OFF A PLUG IN
THERE, YOU KNOW, JUST BASIC
STUFF THAT THAT'S GOING TO BE
HAPPENING.
SO WE'RE GIVING THEM AN
INVENTORY OF SPOTS TO FIX THERE
AND THEN THE SECOND PART
OF THAT CONVERSATION WAS THE
CITY HAS LAUNCHED THIS THIRTY
YEAR PLAN TO BECOME NOT JUST
COMPLIANT WITH ABA BUT SORT
OF EVEN MORE EMBRACING OF THE
ABA SORT OF PHILOSOPHY.
SO A LOT OF THE CONVERSATION
YESTERDAY IS HOW CAN WE MAKE
THE MARKET MORE INCLUSIVE AND
ACCESSIBLE FROM AN ABA
STANDPOINT WHETHER THAT'S
THINGS LIKE MAYBE CHANGING
WHERE THE TOKEN WINDOW IS
ORIENTED SO THAT THERE'S NOT A
CURB THERE OR MAYBE PUTTING AN
AUTOMATIC DOOR OPENER ON THE
OFFICE OR THINGS LIKE THIS THAT
WOULD MAKE MARKET A LITTLE BIT
MORE ACCESSIBLE.
OBVIOUSLY PART OF OUR BIGGEST
STUMBLING BLOCKS WITH THAT IS
ALL THE DIFFERENT LEVELS
OF CONCRETE ALL OVER THE MARKET
.
AND AGAIN, A LOT OF THE POINT
BEHIND THAT WAS TO TRY AND MAKE
IT LEVEL FOR VENDORS.
BUT WHEN MARKET'S NOT OPEN IT
CAN BE A REALLY BIG TRIPPING
HAZARD AND OR JUST NOT THE MOST
INCLUSIVE SPACE FOR FOLKS.
SO WE'RE THINKING REALLY LONG
TERM ABOUT THIS IN TERMS
OF WHAT ARE SOME WAYS THAT WE
CAN MAKE THE MARKET SPACE
ITSELF MORE ACCESSIBLE FOR
EVERYBODY AND THEN WHAT THAT
LOOK LIKE BECAUSE AGAIN DURING
MARKET HOURS WE ARE FINE.
WE HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE
BLOCKING THE TROUBLE SPOTS WITH
THEIR STALLS BUT FOR THE REST
OF THE TIME THAT WE'RE NOT
THERE, THAT'S THAT'S A BIG
ISSUE.
SO THAT'S ALSO PART OF THE
CONVERSATION IN TERMS
OF FACILITIES AND REPAIRS.
>> WE'RE ALSO TALKING AGAIN
ABOUT GETTING NEW SIGNS FOR
MARKET.
SO THIS WAS SOMETHING THAT HAD
COME UP IN YEARS PAST AND THERE
HAD JUST BEEN A SNAG WITH AGAIN
GETTING BOGGED DOWN IN THE
DESIGN PHASE AND SO WE'RE
HOPING TO GET ONE DOUBLE-SIDED
BRAND NEW BIG SIGN FOR THE
CENTER OF THE MARKET AS WELL AS
FIVE DOUBLE SIDED SIGNS FOR
EACH ENTRANCE.
RIGHT NOW THERE'S ACTUALLY ONLY
FOUR OF THE SMALL SIGNS AND
THEY'RE SINGLE SIDED AND
THERE'S ALSO NO SIGNAGE AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE THE MIDDLE
AISLE.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE'RE
USING AND AGAIN HAVING IT
DOUBLE SIDED, I'M NOT SURE WHY
THEY DECIDED TO HAVE JUST A
SIGN ON ONE SIDE BUT IT IS WHAT
IT IS.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE'RE
EXCITED ABOUT AND HOPEFULLY
THAT THAT'S GOING TO BE A
PRETTY PRETTY QUICK THING TO DO
THIS YEAR AND NOT GETTING
BOGGED DOWN TO LIKE CONCEPTUAL
DESIGN AND JUST HAVING
SOMETHING THAT LOOKS NICE WITH
THE INFORMATION WE NEED AND
JUST MOVING ON.
SO THAT WAS PART OF THE
CONVERSATION YESTERDAY AS WELL
DURING THAT WALK THROUGH WE
ALSO TALKED A LOT ABOUT SORT
OF ISSUES IN THE BATHROOMS THAT
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
ASKING ABOUT.
SMALL THINGS ARE A POINT
OF CONTENTION IN THE ICE COLD
WATER THAT RESULTS ALSO THINGS
LIKE THAT ALSO FINDING OUT TOO
THE BRAND NEW BATHROOM WHERE
THEY PUT SOME OF THE PLACEMENT
OF ITEMS ISN'T NECESSARILY AT
THE CORRECT HEIGHT IT NEEDS TO
BE FOR ADYA.
SO THERE MIGHT BE SOME SMALL
ALTERATIONS COMING TO THE
BATHROOM AREAS SOON AS WELL.
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S REAL REAL
EXCITING STUFF.
IT'S IMPORTANT THOUGH THAT THE
THING IS THAT IT'S REALLY
CRITICAL.
>> SO WE'RE JUST GLAD IT'S ON
THEIR RADAR AND HAD A LOT
OF CONVERSATIONS ABOUT WHETHER
WE COULD MAKE A NEW PLACE TO
HAVE SIGNAGE OUTSIDE THE MARKET
BUILDING INSTEAD OF JUST TAPING
IT TO THE FRONT OF THE MARKET
OFFICE AND CALLING IT GOOD.
WE'RE ALSO GOING TO BE TALKING
WITH GIVE THREE SIXTY FIVE IN
APRIL BECAUSE THEY GOT A GRANT
TO ACTUALLY EXPAND SIGNS AND
EXPAND ACCESS TO WASTE
FACILITIES AT PARKS FACILITIES
SO THEY'RE GOING TO BE WORKING
WITH US AS WELL AS GALIP AS
PART OF THE BIG PILOT FOR THIS
PROGRAM.
WE'RE HOPING THAT MEANS IT'S
GOING TO GET BANNERS AND MUCH
LARGER SIGNS TO HELP PEOPLE DO
A BETTER JOB OF SORTING THEIR
WASTE BETWEEN TRASH RECYCLING
AND COMPOST AT THE MARKET AND
WE WILL BE TALKING WITH THEM AS
I SAID NEXT MONTH THE MORE
INFORMATION COMING FROM ABOUT
WHERE THAT BUT THAT'S SOMETHING
ELSE WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO
TO IMPROVE PEOPLE'S EXPERIENCE
THAT MARKET OVERALL.
ONE COMMENT ABOUT THE SIGNAGE
TOO IS THAT I KNOW THAT I'VE
SEEN WITH THE THE SANDWICH
BOARDS THOSE BEEN REALLY
HELPFUL BECAUSE I THINK FROM
WHAT I EXPERIENCE WITH PEOPLE
TOO IS THEY OFTEN ARE LOOKING
DOWN AND NOT UP.
AND THE THING IS TOO, I'VE HAD
A LOT OF PEOPLE ASK ME THIS IS
THE FARMER'S MARKET BUT THERE'S
NO FARMER'S MARKET HERE WHERE
ALL THE REST OF THE TIME AND
THEY'RE VERY CONVENIENT VERSUS
THE SANDWICH BOARDS UP HERE
WHEN IT'S THERE.
SO THAT'S THAT'S BEEN A BIG
PLUS FOR GETTING THAT SIGNAGE
OUT.
THERE WAS ALSO ONE POINT AN
EFFORT WE'RE TRYING TO GET THE
SANDWICH BOARDS ACTUALLY OUT TO
MAIN STREET SO AS TO HAVE THE
PIER SO THAT PEOPLE DRIVING BY
PARTICULARLY ON GAME DAYS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
IT'S AN OPPORTUNITY FOR A LOT
OF ADVERTISING FOR ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND PEOPLE WHO WERE
DRIVING VERY SLOWLY RIGHT.
SO THAT MIGHT BE SOMETHING ELSE
TO CONSIDER BECAUSE IT IS JUST
LIKE TODAY SATURDAY REMEMBER
PUT IT IN YOUR BRAIN AND A
FARMER'S MARKET HERE.
>> SO SO YEAH.
AND I KNOW THE ARTISAN MARKET
THEY'LL ACTUALLY PUT A SIGN ON
THE CORNER OF DETROIT'S STREET
AND CATHERINE AS WELL JUST LIKE
ACROSS FROM DETROIT YOU'RE
FILLING STATIONS GIVING PEOPLE
ON THAT SIDE YOU MAYBE CAN'T
SEE IT WILL COME OVER.
SO OUR OWN OUR BIGGEST THREAT
TO THAT IS THE WIND IT AND I
DON'T WANT TO MAKE IT BIGGER
BUT MAYBE THERE'S WAYS THAT WE
CAN CIRCUMVENT THIS OR MAYBE
TALK TO THE MAIN STREET
ASSOCIATION TO SEE IF THERE'S A
WAY THAT WE COULD COMBINED
FORCES.
BUT THAT'S A GREAT IDEA AND
THAT IS ALL I HAVE ON THAT
ITEM.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS THOUGHTS
FROM OTHER FOLKS?
>> ALL RIGHT.
SEE NONE THAT WILL GO INTO ITEM
TWO RULE UPDATES ALL RIGHT.
SO LET ARE A VERY, VERY SHORT
UPDATE.
WE'RE STILL WAITING FOR THAT
FINAL SIGNATURE.
I ASKED AGAIN ABOUT IT
YESTERDAY SO WE'RE HOPING THAT
IT WILL BE QUICK.
I'M SURE THE COMMUNITY SERVICES
ADMINISTRATOR JUST HAS A TON ON
HIS PLATE AT THE MOMENT AND
THAT'S ALL THAT WE'RE WAITING
FOR.
THE FINAL LANGUAGE HAS NOT
CHANGED ALL THOSE THREE ITEMS
THAT WE'VE WORKED ON FOR MONTHS
IF NOT YEARS ARE IMMINENT.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE GOING INTO
EFFECT VERY SOON AND THAT'S THE
LAST THING THAT WE ARE WAITING
ON FOR THAT.
SO THAT'S A DONE GREAT.
GREAT.
SO ITEM ITEM BE THE BYLAWS
COMMITTEE I GUESS THAT'S ME.
>> IT IS.
SO I THANK YOU STEPHANIE
DOCUMENT CAN YOU SHOW THAT AT
TO LIGHT THE RECORD WE JUST
MAKE SURE MY COMPUTER WILL BE
WE'LL BE SHOWING IT EXACTLY.
OH RIGHT LET ME SHARE MY SCREEN
OUR FOLKS ABLE TO SEE THAT.
>> YES.
ALL RIGHT.
SO LAST TIME WE IDENTIFIED A
NUMBER OF ISSUES THAT WERE
POTENTIALLY THINGS THAT WE
COULD ADDRESS THE THINGS THAT
MIGHT BE WORTH INCLUDING FOR
THE U.S. I KIND OF DUG THROUGH
MORE OF THOSE AND COMPARED WITH
SOME OTHER BODIES I ALSO AT
LEAST AND I HAVE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT THIS TO WHAT MIGHT WORK
WITH SOME IDEAS WITH THIS BUT
IT KIND OF BROKE IT DOWN TO
THESE FOUR THINGS.
SO THE FIRST ONE IS TERM
LIMITS.
AND SO THIS THIS ACTUALLY WOULD
MOSTLY APPLY TO ME BUT IT WOULD
IN GENERAL THE INTENTION IS TO
GET NEW BLOOD AND KEEP THINGS
ROTATING.
YOU DON'T WANT TO HAVE JUST
ETERNALLY INCUMBENTS AND THERE
HAVE BEEN BODIES WHICH HAVE
BEEN PLAGUED BY THAT AND SO
THAT'S THE INTENTION OF HAVING
TERM LIMITS FOR THIS PAC HAS
THE PARKS COMMITTEE HAS SIMILAR
LANGUAGE IN THIS AND THE IDEA
WITH THIS IS THAT NO PERSON CAN
SERVE MORE THAN THEIR CASE I
GUESS SIX YEARS IN TOTAL BUT
THEN THEY CAN ESSENTIALLY GO
FALLOW FOR THREE YEARS AND COME
BACK TO LIFE IF THAT'S SO
DEEMED SO THAT DOES KIND
OF SPLIT THE DIFFERENCE IN THAT
WAY AND THAT SEEMS REASONABLE
SPLIT THE DIFFERENCE IN THAT
MAYBE A CLEANER WAY TO DO IT
WAY AND THAT SEEMS REASONABLE
WOULD BE TO KIND OF DO HOW WE
MAYBE A CLEANER WAY TO DO IT
DO SOMETIMES WE CAN HAVE
WOULD BE TO KIND OF DO HOW WE
PARTIAL APPOINTMENTS WHERE
DO SOMETIMES WE CAN HAVE
PEOPLE ARE APPOINTED MID-TERM
PARTIAL APPOINTMENTS WHERE
SO SAY SOMETHING WHERE EACH
PEOPLE ARE APPOINTED MID-TERM
PERSON SORT OF MAXIMUM OF TWO
SO SAY SOMETHING WHERE EACH
FULL TERMS AND THEN THEY WOULD
PERSON SORT OF MAXIMUM OF TWO
HAVE TO TAKE AT LEAST ONE TERM
FULL TERMS AND THEN THEY WOULD
OFF BEFORE BEING REAPPOINTED
HAVE TO TAKE AT LEAST ONE TERM
SEEMS A FAIRLY MINOR CHANGE BUT
OFF BEFORE BEING REAPPOINTED
I THINK WOULD BE I THINK IT I
SEEMS A FAIRLY MINOR CHANGE BUT
THINK IS HEALTHY FOR A BODY
I THINK WOULD BE I THINK IT I
LIKE THIS TO HAVE THAT ROTATION
THINK IS HEALTHY FOR A BODY
SO THAT'S WHAT I'M PROPOSING
LIKE THIS TO HAVE THAT ROTATION
AND MORE OR LESS WE COULD JUST
SO THAT'S WHAT I'M PROPOSING
BASE IT OFF OF THE TACKLING
AND MORE OR LESS WE COULD JUST
LANGUAGE WITH A SLIGHT
BASE IT OFF OF THE TACKLING
MODIFICATION THAT I'M PROPOSING
LANGUAGE WITH A SLIGHT
IN THERE.
MODIFICATION THAT I'M PROPOSING
SO AT THIS POINT I'M JUST
IN THERE.
SHARING WITH YOU GUYS USED TO
SO AT THIS POINT I'M JUST
GET FEEDBACK AND THEN FORMALLY
SHARING WITH YOU GUYS USED TO
PROPOSE THEM IN A WAY THAT WE
GET FEEDBACK AND THEN FORMALLY
CAN ACTUALLY GO THROUGH AND
PROPOSE THEM IN A WAY THAT WE
MAKE THE CHANGE.
CAN ACTUALLY GO THROUGH AND
BUT ON THAT PART FOR TERM
MAKE THE CHANGE.
LIMITS THAT'S WHAT I'VE GOT
BUT ON THAT PART FOR TERM
THERE.
LIMITS THAT'S WHAT I'VE GOT
THE SECOND THING IS THAT
THERE.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST THAT
THE SECOND THING IS THAT
THERE'S CURRENTLY SOMETHING
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST THAT
ASKING FOR A CONFLICT
THERE'S CURRENTLY SOMETHING
OF INTEREST WRITTEN STATEMENT
ASKING FOR A CONFLICT
AS IT'S IN OUR BYLAWS BUT WE
OF INTEREST WRITTEN STATEMENT
DON'T WE'RE ACTUALLY ALL
AS IT'S IN OUR BYLAWS BUT WE
REQUIRED TO DO IT WHEN WE FIRST
DON'T WE'RE ACTUALLY ALL
SIGN UP IN THE CITY REQUIRES IT
REQUIRED TO DO IT WHEN WE FIRST
AND SO WE COULD JUST TAKE THE
SIGN UP IN THE CITY REQUIRES IT
EXACT SAME LANGUAGE.
AND SO WE COULD JUST TAKE THE
ONE THING THAT'S UNCLEAR IN ALL
EXACT SAME LANGUAGE.
THE BODIES I'VE SEEN AS TO WHAT
ONE THING THAT'S UNCLEAR IN ALL
YOU DO WITH IN TERMS OF WHO
THE BODIES I'VE SEEN AS TO WHAT
DOES IT GO TO AND WHO ELSE
YOU DO WITH IN TERMS OF WHO
KNOWS ABOUT IT.
DOES IT GO TO AND WHO ELSE
AND SO WHAT I PROPOSE WITH THIS
KNOWS ABOUT IT.
IS THAT WHEN WE DO OUR JANUARY
AND SO WHAT I PROPOSE WITH THIS
KIND OF ELECTIONS AND THINGS
IS THAT WHEN WE DO OUR JANUARY
LIKE THAT, THAT'S KIND OF OUR
KIND OF ELECTIONS AND THINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BODY FUNCTION
LIKE THAT, THAT'S KIND OF OUR
THAT WE'D ALSO SUBMIT STATEMENT
ADMINISTRATIVE BODY FUNCTION
OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST TO THE
THAT WE'D ALSO SUBMIT STATEMENT
MARKET MANAGER THEN THE MARKET
OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST TO THE
MANAGER WOULD IN THE NEXT ONE
MARKET MANAGER THEN THE MARKET
REPORT BACK TO US ANY ANY
MANAGER WOULD IN THE NEXT ONE
RESULTS WHERE ANYONE HAS A
REPORT BACK TO US ANY ANY
CONFLICT OF INTEREST WHICH IS
RESULTS WHERE ANYONE HAS A
IT'S OK TO HAVE A CONFLICT
CONFLICT OF INTEREST WHICH IS
OF INTEREST.
IT'S OK TO HAVE A CONFLICT
I IF IT'S NOT OK TO HAVE A NON
OF INTEREST.
DISCLOSED CONFLICT OF INTEREST
I IF IT'S NOT OK TO HAVE A NON
AND MAKING SURE THAT IS
DISCLOSED CONFLICT OF INTEREST
DISCLOSED NOT JUST TO THE
AND MAKING SURE THAT IS
MANAGER BUT TO EVERYONE SO THAT
DISCLOSED NOT JUST TO THE
WE CAN SAY OK, THIS IS WHERE WE
MANAGER BUT TO EVERYONE SO THAT
KNOW WHERE WE ARE GOING AND
WE CAN SAY OK, THIS IS WHERE WE
THEN WE CAN NAVIGATE THAT
KNOW WHERE WE ARE GOING AND
ACCORDING TO THE RULES WITHIN
THEN WE CAN NAVIGATE THAT
THE AGREEMENT, WITHIN THE
ACCORDING TO THE RULES WITHIN
BYLAWS WHICH IS PRETTY EXPLICIT
THE AGREEMENT, WITHIN THE
IF YOU HAVE A CONFLICT
BYLAWS WHICH IS PRETTY EXPLICIT
OF INTEREST YOU HAVE TO RECUSE
IF YOU HAVE A CONFLICT
YOURSELF SO YOU CAN'T
OF INTEREST YOU HAVE TO RECUSE
PARTICIPATE IN THE DISCUSSION
YOURSELF SO YOU CAN'T
THEN YOU ALSO CAN'T VOTE FOR
PARTICIPATE IN THE DISCUSSION
FAIRLY FAIR AND PRETTY
THEN YOU ALSO CAN'T VOTE FOR
STRAIGHTFORWARD WAY TO DEAL
FAIRLY FAIR AND PRETTY
WITH THAT.
STRAIGHTFORWARD WAY TO DEAL
BUT JUST TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
WITH THAT.
ARE ABOVE BOARD WITH THIS AND
BUT JUST TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
CLEAR WITH THAT.
ARE ABOVE BOARD WITH THIS AND
SO THAT'S WHAT I PROPOSE FOR
CLEAR WITH THAT.
THAT IS TO MORE AS A PROCESS
SO THAT'S WHAT I PROPOSE FOR
CHANGE LESS OF THE LANGUAGE
THAT IS TO MORE AS A PROCESS
CHANGE IN THE BYLAWS BUT MAYBE
CHANGE LESS OF THE LANGUAGE
IT WOULD CHANGE IN TERMS
CHANGE IN THE BYLAWS BUT MAYBE
OF SPECIFYING THIS PATH BAKED
IT WOULD CHANGE IN TERMS
INTO THE AGREEMENT THERE.
OF SPECIFYING THIS PATH BAKED
ITEM THREE IS ALSO IN THE
INTO THE AGREEMENT THERE.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST WHICH IS
ITEM THREE IS ALSO IN THE
THAT THERE'S NO MEMBER CAN BE A
CONFLICT OF INTEREST WHICH IS
PETITIONER ALSO WHICH I CAN SEE
THAT THERE'S NO MEMBER CAN BE A
HOW THAT KIND OF MAKES SENSE.
PETITIONER ALSO WHICH I CAN SEE
BUT GIVEN THE MAKEUP OF OUR
HOW THAT KIND OF MAKES SENSE.
BODY THAT WE AUTOMATICALLY DO
BUT GIVEN THE MAKEUP OF OUR
HAVE VENDORS ARE AN INHERENT
BODY THAT WE AUTOMATICALLY DO
PART OF THIS BODY AND IT WOULD
HAVE VENDORS ARE AN INHERENT
SEEM KIND OF AS WRITTEN THAT IT
PART OF THIS BODY AND IT WOULD
WOULD BE THAT LIKE IF YOU'RE ON
SEEM KIND OF AS WRITTEN THAT IT
THIS BODY YOU CAN'T HAVE
WOULD BE THAT LIKE IF YOU'RE ON
PROBLEMS OR YOU CAN'T AND THAT
THIS BODY YOU CAN'T HAVE
IT'S LIKE WAIT, THAT DOESN'T
PROBLEMS OR YOU CAN'T AND THAT
THAT WOULD IF THAT WERE TAKEN
IT'S LIKE WAIT, THAT DOESN'T
LITERALLY IT WOULD SEEM TO
THAT WOULD IF THAT WERE TAKEN
DISCOURAGE PARTICIPATION AND IF
LITERALLY IT WOULD SEEM TO
IT WERE NOT TAKEN LITERALLY
DISCOURAGE PARTICIPATION AND IF
THEN WHY HAVEN'T SO IT SEEMS
IT WERE NOT TAKEN LITERALLY
LIKE WHAT I'M PROPOSING WITH
THEN WHY HAVEN'T SO IT SEEMS
THAT IS TO STRIKE IT AS TO
LIKE WHAT I'M PROPOSING WITH
BECAUSE IT SEEMS LIKE IF WE
THAT IS TO STRIKE IT AS TO
HAVE CONFLICT OF INTEREST, A
BECAUSE IT SEEMS LIKE IF WE
CONFLICT OF INTEREST IF YOU'RE
HAVE CONFLICT OF INTEREST, A
A PETITIONER THEN DISCLOSED AND
CONFLICT OF INTEREST IF YOU'RE
THEN YOU WOULD THEN DO ALL THE
A PETITIONER THEN DISCLOSED AND
PROCEDURES FOR CONFLICT
THEN YOU WOULD THEN DO ALL THE
OF INTEREST IN TERMS OF YOU
PROCEDURES FOR CONFLICT
WOULD KNOW YOU WOULDN'T
OF INTEREST IN TERMS OF YOU
PARTICIPATE IN THAT DISCUSSION
WOULD KNOW YOU WOULDN'T
,WOULDN'T VOTE IN THAT.
PARTICIPATE IN THAT DISCUSSION
SO THAT WOULD BE SEEMS LIKE
,WOULDN'T VOTE IN THAT.
THAT WOULD BE DEALT WITH IN THE
SO THAT WOULD BE SEEMS LIKE
REST OF THE BODY.
THAT WOULD BE DEALT WITH IN THE
I'M OPEN TO OTHER
REST OF THE BODY.
INTERPRETATIONS OF THAT BUT
I'M OPEN TO OTHER
THAT'S KIND OF MY REDISCOUNT
INTERPRETATIONS OF THAT BUT
EXPERT.
THAT'S KIND OF MY REDISCOUNT
AND THEN THE FOURTH THING IS A
EXPERT.
BIGGER CHANGE IN SOME WAYS
AND THEN THE FOURTH THING IS A
WHICH IS CURRENTLY WE HAVE FIVE
BIGGER CHANGE IN SOME WAYS
MEMBERS ARE OFFICIALLY
WHICH IS CURRENTLY WE HAVE FIVE
DESIGNATED ON THIS BOARD.
MEMBERS ARE OFFICIALLY
WE'RE PROPOSING THIS AS YOU'RE
DESIGNATED ON THIS BOARD.
LOOKING AT ACROSS OTHER BODIES
WE'RE PROPOSING THIS AS YOU'RE
LIKE THIS.
LOOKING AT ACROSS OTHER BODIES
WE'RE ACTUALLY THE SMALLEST IF
LIKE THIS.
NOT THE NEAR ONE OF THE
WE'RE ACTUALLY THE SMALLEST IF
SMALLEST FOUR OF THESE BODIES
NOT THE NEAR ONE OF THE
AND THERE ARE ADVANTAGES
SMALLEST FOUR OF THESE BODIES
NUMBERS IN TERMS OF THINGS LIKE
AND THERE ARE ADVANTAGES
TODAY IN TERMS OF QUORUM IT'S A
NUMBERS IN TERMS OF THINGS LIKE
LOT EASIER TO ACHIEVE QUORUM
TODAY IN TERMS OF QUORUM IT'S A
WHEN YOU HAVE MORE PEOPLE.
LOT EASIER TO ACHIEVE QUORUM
THE OTHER PART OF IT IS JUST
WHEN YOU HAVE MORE PEOPLE.
KIND OF HOW MUCH INPUT BECAUSE
THE OTHER PART OF IT IS JUST
SOMETIMES IF ONE PERSON IS NOT
KIND OF HOW MUCH INPUT BECAUSE
PRESENT THEN OFTENTIMES WE'RE
SOMETIMES IF ONE PERSON IS NOT
MISSING A HUGE
FRAGMENT OF THAT
THAT VOICE.
SO IT WOULD BE IT COULD BE AN
ADVANTAGE TO HAVE MORE PEOPLE
ON ALSO EVEN FOR THIS
DISCUSSION OF TRYING TO WORK ON
SUBCOMMITTEES AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
WE JUST HAVE FEWER MINDS TO
WORK TOGETHER ON THINGS SO
THERE COULD BE AN ADVANTAGE FOR
THAT.
SO ONE SOLUTION WOULD BE TO
HAVE ONE ADDITIONAL VENDOR
WHICH WOULD BE INCLUDED AT ALL,
INCLUDING DALYS, ANNUALIZE
ARTISAN'S OR FOOD FOLKS AND
THAT MIGHT BE AN INTERESTING
WAY TO GET MORE VOICE WITHIN
AND MORE AGENCY OF SOME
OF THOSE LESS REPRESENTED
GROUPS ON THIS BODY.
THAT WOULD BE A GREAT WAY TO DO
IT.
AND ONE ADDITIONAL MEMBER WHICH
IS WE COULD FIGURE OUT HOW WE
WANT TO DO AND AGAIN BRITISH
LIKE STRUCTURE AND VOTING IT
SHOULD BE AN ODD NUMBER HAVING
IS A PROBLEM BECAUSE YOU GET
SOMETHING SO THAT THAT'S KIND
OF WHERE THAT NO HAPPENED.
SO THAT WOULD BE JUST A
MODIFICATION OF ARTICLE FOUR ON
MEMBERSHIP.
SO THAT'S WHAT I'M PROPOSING
WITH THIS.
I'M WONDERING IF YOU GUYS HAVE
ANY THOUGHTS OR SEE ANY RED
FLAGS OR SEE THE OPPORTUNITIES
THAT PEOPLE ARE DEEP IN THOUGHT
ABOUT IT AND IT ALL SEEMS
PRETTY SENSIBLE TO YOU TO WANT
THAT'S WHERE I DIDN'T
PREVIOUSLY MOST OF US BUT YEAH,
NOTHING GLARINGLY AGHAJAN
THAT'S GOOD.
>> THAT'S GOOD.
AND ALSO IF THERE ARE ANY OTHER
CHANGES OR OTHER THINGS YOU SEE
WITHIN THAT DOCUMENT THEN WE
CAN PROCEED WITH THAT FURTHER.
BUT THAT'S MORE OR LESS MY
INTENTION WITH THIS IS KIND
OF JUST FLOATING A TRIAL
BALLOON TRYING TO SLOWLY MORPH
THIS AMORPHOUS THING INTO
SOMETHING THAT WILL EVENTUALLY
BECOME LANGUAGE.
AND THEN WHAT I PROPOSE WITH
THAT IS THAT MAYBE NEXT TIME I
CAN COME BACK WITH PROPOSAL
LANGUAGE WE CAN REALLY ACT
THROUGH THAT AND IF THAT WORKS
THEN VOTE TO INCLUDE THAT.
I MEAN AGAIN IT WILL HAVE TO GO
THROUGH ANOTHER ROUND OF LEGAL
VALIDATION BECAUSE IT'S
CERTAINLY SUPPORTED BY LAWS.
BUT AT LEAST MAKING SURE THAT
WE'RE OK WITH THAT AND
PERCEIVING THAT FORWARD.
BUT THAT'S HOW I ENVISION THAT
PROCESS WITH MOVE FORWARD.
>> YEAH.
TO MOVE FORWARD WITH THIS ONE
IT ALSO NEEDS TO GO TO COUNCIL
BECAUSE IT IS OUR BYLAWS.
SO I HAVE TO GO TO LEGAL FIRST
THEN.
BUT YES, I THINK TO ME IT MAKES
A LOT MORE A LOT OF SENSE TO
ESPECIALLY BRING MORE VENDORS
ON.
I WILL SPOUTED A LITTLE STRANGE
THAT THE CURRENT STRUCTURE THAT
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC CAN
ACTUALLY OUTVOTE PEOPLE THAT
ARE INVOLVED IN THE MARKET
DIRECTLY.
I REALLY LIKE THE LANGUAGE
OF HAVING MAYBE AN AT LARGE
VENDOR REPRESENTATIVE SO THEN
THAT WAY THEY LITERALLY ARE THE
ENCOMPASSING OF ANYONE WITHOUT
HAVING TO THE BORDER.
I KNOW THAT'S FOR EXAMPLE HOW
THE GREEN BELT DOES THEIRS.
THEY KIND HAVE THAT FLOATING
WILD CARD SEAT THAT IS MORE
GENERALLY LARGE OF OURS COULD
BE VENDOR AT LARGE AND THEN
MAYBE ALSO TO YOU KNOW, THAT
LARGE COMMUNITY MEMBER OR WE
COULD DO TWO VENDORS NOT SURE
BUT I LIKE THAT PART AND I ALSO
THINK YOU'RE RIGHT WE REALLY DO
NEED TO HAVE A BETTER PROCESS
IF CONFLICTS COME ABOUT, HOW DO
WE ADDRESS THEM?
HOW DO WE MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE
LISTENING TO EVERYBODY AND
MAKING SURE THAT WE'RE ALSO
SERVING EVERYBODY IN THE SAME
WAY AND THEN THE BEGINNING PART
TERM LIMITS?
YEAH, I THINK THAT'S A REALLY
GOOD WAY TO GO ABOUT IT IS JUST
SORT OF I THINK OUR THE
GREENBELT IS ALSO SIMILAR IN
THAT THEY DO THE TWO TERMS THEN
THREE YEARS OFF AND THEN YOU
CAN COME BACK AS WELL.
THAT SEEMS PRETTY STANDARD
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
SO I THINK I AGREE THAT I THINK
THAT'S A GOOD WAY TO GO ABOUT
THAT TO GREAT BUT YEAH THAT'S A
GOOD THING TOO.
WITH THE CONFLICT OF INTEREST
SECTION WE'VE BEEN VERY LUCKY
WITHIN THIS BODY AT LEAST WHEN
FOR THE TIME I'VE BEEN HERE
WHERE THAT THERE'S NOT BEEN ANY
MAJOR KERFUFFLE BUT I HAVE
HEARD STORIES OF OTHER BODIES
WHICH HAVE HAD SOME SOME
SERIOUS ISSUES WITH IT.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE ALTHOUGH WE
HAVEN'T PERSONALLY DEALT WITH
IT, IT'S TAKING IT SERIOUSLY
AND MAKING SURE THAT WE'VE GOT
PROCESSES IN PLACE JUST IN CASE
THAT DOES ARISE THAT WE CAN
HANDLE IT GRACEFULLY AND I
THINK THAT THAT'S THAT'S WHAT
THIS IS TRYING TO HELP US WITH.
AND I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE MAXIMALLY SUPPORT THAT
AND MAKE THOSE PROCESSES OTHER
THOSE THE BAD THINGS NOT HAPPEN
OR IF THEY DO HAVE SOMETHING
AND YEAH, I MEAN IT'S TEN YEARS
SINCE IT WAS MOST RECENTLY
REVIVED.
SO I THINK IT'S TIME IT'S
PERFECT TIMING TO TO SERVE THIS
TO OK SO THEN I WILL COME BACK
NEXT TIME WITH A REVISION
LANGUAGE AND THEN A MORE FORMAL
PROPOSAL WITH LANGUAGE AND THEN
WE'LL HAVE HOPEFULLY A QUORUM
THEN TOO AND SO I WILL TRY TO
HAVE THAT SENT OUT BEFOREHAND
SO THAT PEOPLE HAVE A CHANCE TO
LOOK OVER BEFOREHAND AND THEN
BUT IT WILL BE MORE OR LESS
FALLING ALONG THESE LINES.
GREAT, GREAT.
I'M GOING TO STOP SHARING THEM
.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I GUESS MOVING ON THEN FOR
ITEM CPUSA ONLY SUBCOMMITTEE
THAT WAS WE COULD DO A
CHALLENGE THAT WAS THING SHE
DID REACH OUT TO ME EARLIER
THIS WEEK AND SO SHE WANTS TO
TRY AND SCHEDULE THAT MEETING
FOR THE SUBCOMMITTEE THAT ALEX
AND MYSELF WILL HOPEFULLY ALSO
BE ABLE TO ATTEND EITHER NEXT
WEEK OR THE FOLLOWING WEEK.
SO THAT IS HOPEFULLY COMING UP
SOON AND THAT IS JUST SHARING
THE AGENDA WITH EVERYONE MAKING
SURE PEOPLE ARE ON THE SAME
PAGE AND JUST PRELIMINARY
MEETING TO REINFORCE THE WORK
GOING ON ALONG THE ONLY TOPIC.
SO SHORT AND SWEET UPDATE,
GREAT.
AND THEN ITEM D THE FOURTH
STALL FOR ANNUAL CRUISER'S.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE FOURTH STALL DO FOLKS
NEED ME TO SHARE CARLENE'S
LETTER OR OR ARE YOU ABLE TO
PULL IT UP YOURSELF OR IF YOU
OR I CAN ALSO EITHER WAY I'VE
GOT IT.
YOU MAY AS WELL SHOW IT THOUGH
TO JUST ANYONE ON TV LAND MIGHT
NOT HAVE IT RIGHT.
LET ME PULL THAT UP.
BUT THIS IS A LETTER THAT
KALEEN HAD SHOWED US A COUPLE
OF WEEKS TO GO BUT THIS IS THE
OFFICIAL FINAL DRAFT.
BUT LET ME WAIT FOR MY SLIGHTLY
SLUGGISH COMPUTER TO PULL THIS
DOCUMENT UP AND THEN I WILL
SHARE IT
.
ARE YOU ABLE TO SEE IT?
YEP.
AS YOU CAN SEE IT'S PRIMARILY
ABOUT WANTING TO HAVE PERMANENT
OR PERMANENT ANNUAL STALLS FOR
PEOPLE THAT ARE ANNUAL STATE
OF SPENDER'S.
>> IT'S A LITTLE BIT CONFUSING
BECAUSE CURRENTLY IF THERE IS
AN ADDITIONAL STALL AVAILABLE
AND PEOPLE WOULD LIKE THAT
PEOPLE CAN GET A FOURTH STALL.
SO THERE ARE ALREADY THINGS IN
THE RULES THAT PROVIDE FOR THIS
BUT THIS WOULD BE HAVING A
FOURTH ASSIGNED STALL TO
I
DON'T KNOW IF PEOPLE WANT TO
JUST QUICKLY READ IT OVER OR WE
SHOULD JUST DOVE INTO THE
CONVERSATION.
SO JUST TO CLARIFY TOO THAT I'M
WONDERING ABOUT THE HISTORY
OF THIS TOO.
SO I KNOW THAT THERE WERE SOME
PEOPLE WHO WERE GRANDFATHERED
IN FOR YEARS FOR THREE OR FOUR
VENDORS.
DO YOU KNOW THAT YOU KIND
OF DESCRIBE THAT BACKGROUND A
LITTLE BIT?
>> YEAH, AS FAR AS I KNOW THERE
WAS A WHILE IN THE EARLY
EIGHTIES WHERE THE MARKET WAS
GETTING STIFF OPPOSITION FROM
THE RECENT AT THE TIME
EXPANSION OF GROCERY OFFERINGS
AND THEY WERE HAVING A HARD
TIME JUST FILLING THE MARKET AT
ALL.
SO THERE WAS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO GET A FOURTH STALL AT
SOME POINT NOT SURE EXACT
TIMELINE UNFORTUNATELY ON THIS
ONE IS THAT WAS RESCINDED SO
THAT PEOPLE THEN WERE ABLE TO
HAVE A MAXIMUM OF THREE STALLS
BUT PEOPLE THAT HAD ALREADY HAD
THE FORESTALLS WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF ONE VENDOR AND I
ALSO DON'T KNOW WHY THAT
EXCEPTION WAS MADE.
EVERYONE ELSE WAS RESTRICTED AT
THREE THE EXCEPTIONS TO THAT
BEING GREEN HOUSE WHICH IS
GRANDFATHERED IN AT FORESTALLS
AS FLORISTS AND WASEM FARM
OAKVILLE FARMS WAS THE ONE THAT
IS AT 3:00 BUT I'M NOT SURE
THAT HE WOULD EVEN WANT TO
FORESTALL CURRENTLY GIVEN THE
VOLUME OF PRODUCTS THAT HE HAS
MORE THAN MAYBE LIKE ONE OR TWO
TIMES PER YEAR WHEN HE HAS HIS
BEDDING PLANTS AND PUMPKIN.
BUT EVERYBODY ELSE HAS A MAX
OF THREE PERMANENT ASSIGNED
STALLS WITH THAT SAID KALEEN
OFTEN USES A FOURTH STALL IN
THE SUMMER WE ARE ABLE TO
CONVERT ONE OF THE SIDEWALK
STALLS CLOSE TO THEIR STALLS
DOWN OR INTO A PLACE THAT'S
OFTEN DISPLAYED WITH FLOWERS,
OFTEN DISPLAYED WITH PUMPKINS
AND DECORATIVE THINGS OF THAT
NATURE.
TO GIVE CONTEXT, I KNOW
SOMETIMES TO JIM PATASHNIK IF
THE STALL NEXT TO HIM IS
AVAILABLE ESPECIALLY WHEN IT'S
TIME FOR RIFS HE HAS BEEN ABLE
TO RENT THAT FOURTH STALL ON A
DAILY BASIS AS WELL.
THE DONOGHUE'S HAVE DONE THAT
TO WHEN THE STALL NEXT TO THEM
WAS AVAILABLE BUT
IT BECOMES A
LOT MORE DIFFICULT FOR FOLKS
THAT ARE LOCKED IN NEXT TO
OTHER PEOPLE THAT ALSO HAVE
THREE STALLS.
SO LOGISTIC WE THIS IS VERY,
VERY DIFFICULT TO GET OUR OUR
HEAD AROUND MAINLY BECAUSE
OF THAT FOR EXAMPLE, ON ONE
SIDE OF THE MAIN AISLE WE HAVE
SOMETHING LIKE THREE TO SIX.
WELL IF YOU TAKE IT IN SEGMENTS
OR BY THEMSELVES WE HAVE THREE
VENDORS IN A ROW ON ONE SIDE
THAT'S FORESTALLS THREE STALLS,
THREE STALLS AND THEN NEXT TO
THEM IT'S ANOTHER THREE THREE
THREE THREE AND THAT'S THE SAME
ACROSS THE WAY THE MAIN AISLE.
SO THIS IS I'M NOT SURE
LOGISTICALLY HOW THIS WOULD
WORK.
SO THAT'S ONE THING.
THE OTHER IS WE'RE JUST NOT
SURE HOW MANY PEOPLE EVEN WANT
TO FORESTALL.
BUT THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE THAT
WE KNOW WOULD WANT THEM BUT
DIRECTLY NEXT TO THEM IS EITHER
A ONE PERSON STALL ALREADY
PREASSIGNED OR A WALKWAY.
SO WE DON'T REALLY HAVE WIGGLE
ROOM SO THIS WOULD HAVE TO BE A
PART OF A BROADER CONVERSATION
OF YOU.
DO WE HAVE TO REASSIGN STALLS
TO PEOPLE WHICH I THINK COULD
CAUSE A LOT OF CONFLICT?
I'M NOT SURE EXACTLY HOW WE
WOULD ADDRESS THAT PART
OF THAT'S WHY THIS WHOLE TIME
I'VE JUST BEEN SORT OF TAKING
IT ON A DAY BY DAY BASIS SAYING
THAT HEY, IF YOU NEED THAT
ADDITIONAL CALL TODAY AND IT'S
OPEN, GO FOR IT.
THE RULES ALREADY ALLOW THIS
BECAUSE THAT'S THE OTHER SIDE
OF THIS.
LIKE CARLY MENTIONED, YOU'RE
GOING TO GET THAT FORSTALL YOU
HAVE TO PAY FOR IT AND THE SO
IF YOU ONLY WANT IT THREE DAYS
OUT OF THE YEAR WHEN IT'S
PLANTS TIME OR WHAT IS PUMPKIN
TIME OR WHATEVER, IT DOESN'T
NECESSARILY MAKE SENSE AND
THAT'S POTENTIALLY WHY THERE
MIGHT BE THAT MANY PEOPLE THAT
DON'T WANT THAT.
BUT BUT THAT'S THE TOUGH NUT TO
CRACK.
AND WHEN I WENT BACK OVER THE
LIST THERE'S CURRENTLY TWENTY
FOUR VENDORS THAT ARE PRODUCE
VENDORS THAT HAVE RISSOLES
AGAIN NOT SURE HOW MANY
OF THOSE WOULD BE INTERESTED IN
THE FORSTALL BUT THAT'S QUITE
QUITE A FEW MORE THAN ARTISAN'S
RIGHT.
BECAUSE WE WERE ONLY REALLY
TALKING ABOUT TWELVE ARTISANS,
THIRTEEN ARTISANS HAVING ANNUAL
STATE OF THE OTHER THING ON THE
TABLE HERE IS THAT DUE TO
RETIREMENT WE CURRENTLY HAVE
FIVE SOLS THAT ARE OPEN MEANING
THAT THEY ARE UNASSIGNED FOR
ANNUAL EXTOLLS.
THAT DOES NOT MEAN THE SAME
THING AS THEM BEING ON A MARKET
BECAUSE WE HAVE PLENTY
OF VENDORS WHO ARE DAILY STATUS
THAT WE CAN FIT IN THESE PLACES
ON ANY GIVEN DAY BUT THAT'S
THAT'S PART OF WHAT MAKES US A
LITTLE BIT LOGISTICALLY
CONFUSING IF YOU'RE NOT
FAMILIAR WITH THE INNER
WORKINGS OF MARKET ON A DAY TO
DAY BASIS AND THEN THE OTHER
SIDE OF THAT TOO IS THAT'S FIVE
WE'RE PROBABLY GOING TO GET
SEVEN MORE BY JULY 1ST BASED ON
CONVERSATIONS I'VE HAD WITH SO
SAY ALL TWENTY FOUR PEOPLE
WANTED THOSE PEOPLE COULDN'T
GET THAT FORSTALL ALL AT ONCE.
RIGHT.
WE WOULD THEN HAVE TO DO A
PHASED IN TIER SYSTEM TO EVEN
IF WE HAD THE SPACE NEXT TO
EACH OTHER.
SO THOSE ARE SOME THINGS TO
THINK ABOUT IN THE CONTEXT
OF THIS BUT I'D BE INTERESTED
GO AHEAD I GUESS THEN TWO SO I
UNDERSTAND TO THE THOUGHT IS IF
YOU WERE SOMEONE WITH THREE
STALLS WHO WANTED TO FORESTALL
A PERMANENT FORESTALL THEY MOST
LIKELY WANT THEM ALL TO BE
CONTIGUOUS.
THAT'S THAT'S WHERE THE
SHIPPING AND EVERYTHING WOULD
HAPPEN IF THEY HAD HIGH
SENIORITY THEY COULD OTHER
FOLKS AND THEN THAT WOULD BE
KIND OF A CHAIN REACTION WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING.
>> CORRECT.
BUT THE WAY THAT IT CURRENTLY
WORKS TECHNICALLY IS THAT YOU
COULD GET A FOURTH STALL THAT'S
NOT NEXT TO THE OTHER STALLS
AND EVENTUALLY YOU WOULD KIND
OF HAVE TO WAIT TILL IT OPENS
UP AND THEN YOU'D BE ABLE TO
SHIFT INTO IT WHICH IS ALREADY
HOW IT WORKS FOR IF YOU'RE
GETTING YOUR SECOND STALL, IF
YOU'RE GETTING YOUR THIRD
STALL.
I JUST FEEL LIKE IF WE HAD A
LOT OF PEOPLE THAT WANTED TO DO
IT AT ONCE IT WOULD BE
INCREDIBLY DIFFICULT TO PULL
OFF SO THAT'S EXACTLY HOW IT
WOULD WORK.
>> YEAH, I REMEMBER WHEN I WAS
A LITTLE KID IT TOOK MY
DAD PROBABLY TEN YEARS TO GET
ALL THREE OF OUR STALLS NEXT TO
EACH OTHER.
YEAH.
SO THIS WOULD JUST BE LIKE THE
FIRST INITIAL STEPPING STONE
TOWARDS WORKING THAT I DON'T
THINK IT WOULD WORK OUT WHERE
ANYONE REALLY WOULD GET
FORESTALLS DIRECTLY IN A ROW
RIGHT NOW.
YEAH, IT WOULD JUST BE LAYING
THE GROUNDWORK.
SURE.
TO WORK TOWARDS THAT AND THAT'S
ALL GOING TO TAKE TIME.
I THINK SOMETHING THAT WOULD BE
VERY USEFUL FOR EVERYBODY WOULD
BE IF YOU COULD DO A SURVEY OR
HAVE SOMEONE DO A SURVEY AND
FIND OUT HOW MANY PEOPLE WOULD
ACTUALLY WANT A FOURTH STALL
AND THEN THAT WOULD GIVE US
BEFORE WE EVEN TALK ABOUT IT, I
THINK THAT WOULD GIVE US
SOMETHING TO LOOK AT THAT'S A
GOOD IDEA.
>> IS THAT SOMETHING THAT YOU
WOULD EVEN WANT TO OR NOT?
I'M NOT EVEN CERTAIN I DON'T
KNOW.
I'D HAVE TO I'D HAVE TO THINK
ABOUT IT BECAUSE THE THING IS
THE WAY I LOOK AT IT IS IF
THERE'S ONLY THOSE FEW TIMES I
NEED IT BUT WOULD BE GUARANTEED
IN MY FORSTALL WHEN I DID NEED
IT INSTEAD OF MAYBE THE MAYBE
OF FOUR WEEKS THAT I NEED IT
FOR OUR ALSO THE FOUR WEEKS AT
THE MARKETS THE BUSIEST RIGHT.
>> SO IT MIGHT MIGHT ACTUALLY
GENERATE I DON'T KNOW HOW TO
FIGURE IT OUT EXACTLY BUT I
MIGHT ACTUALLY END UP
GENERATING MORE MONEY FOR THE
MARKET BECAUSE ANY TIME YOU
HAVE AN ANNUAL VENDOR WHO HOLDS
A STALL AND DOESN'T COME IN AND
THEN THEY'RE ABLE TO RENT IT
OUT ON A DAILY LEVEL, IT BRINGS
OBVIOUSLY IT BRINGS MORE MONEY
IN.
SO THERE MIGHT BE SOMETHING TO
CONSIDER TOO.
I DON'T THINK IF I HAD TO GUESS
I DON'T THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF PEOPLE THAT ARE GOING TO
WANT TO FORESTALL BUT IT WOULD
BE NICE FOR THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
THE PEOPLE WHO DID WELL THANKS
FOR SHARING.
THAT'S HELPFUL.
DOES ANYONE ELSE HAVE ANY
THOUGHTS ABOUT THIS?
FROM MY PERSPECTIVE I'M A
LITTLE TORN BECAUSE IN SOME
WAYS THAT I I, I LIKE HAVING
DIVERSITY AT THE MARKET AND
HAVING MORE VENDORS WOULD BE
THAT IN MY IDEAL WORLD HAVING
EVERYTHING RUNNING REALLY WELL.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME I KNOW
THERE ARE A LOT OF VENDORS THAT
HAVE BIG OPERATIONS WHICH HAVE
A REALLY BIG DIVERSITY
OF PRODUCTS AND SO THAT THAT'S
IT'S KIND OF THE SAME THING AND
THEY'RE PROFESSIONALS AND THEY
DO THEIR THING REALLY WELL AND
THAT THEY PUT OUT THE PART.
>> SO THAT'S KIND OF NICE TO
HAVE THEM DO KIND OF WE JUST
NEED A BIGGER MARKET.
WE NEED DOUBLE THE SIZE OF THE
MARKET AREA THAT EVERYTHING CAN
BE DONE BUT THAT DOESN'T SEEM
TO BE IN THE CARDS.
SO I I'M IN THAT WAY I CAN HEAR
BOTH SIDES.
>> I GUESS ANOTHER THING THAT
I'D LIKE TO SAY IS IS THINGS
CHANGE LIKE FOR INSTANCE THE
WAY THINGS EVERY EVERYTHING
CHANGES AND THE DIRECTION
EVERYTHING'S GOING THERE'S LESS
AND LESS FARMERS.
THE PERCENTAGE OF PEOPLE THAT
ARE FARMERS IS SO MUCH LESS IN
IT THAN THAN IT'S EVER BEEN.
AND IF IF ANY OF MY KIDS WANT
TO TAKE OVER IT TAKES MORE AND
MORE IN A MORE BIGGER, STRONGER
DISPLAY OF THINGS TO TO
GENERATE ENOUGH MONEY TO CREATE
A LIVING.
AND THAT'S THAT'S A DIFFICULT
PART IS IF YOUR BUSINESS IS
GROWING AND IT NEEDS TO GROW A
LITTLE BIT MORE TO TO TO BE
ABLE TO CONTINUE TO DO IT, THEN
THEN THAT'S SOMETHING THAT IS
IS A HURDLE THAT'S HARD TO GET
OVER SOMETIMES.
YEAH, TOTALLY.
AND I THINK I MEAN THE CONTEXT
HERE IS THAT UNFORTUNATELY WE
JUST DON'T HAVE THE FARMS THAT
WE HAD IN MICHIGAN EVEN FIVE
YEARS AGO TEN YEARS AGO.
SO YEAH, IT'S LIKE THAT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT IS MAKING SURE
THAT OUR CURRENT VENDORS HAVE
ENOUGH SPACE TO THRIVE AND BE
SUCCESSFUL WHILE ALSO MAKING
SURE WE HAVE A LONG TERM PLAN
WHERE WE'RE MAKING SURE THEY'RE
BRINGING ON NEWER PEOPLE THAT
ARE GETTING ESTABLISHED TOO.
IT'S IT'S JUST A BALANCING ACT.
BUT I AGREE WITH THAT.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE REALLY AT THE
PRECIPICE NOW WHERE THE
RETIREMENTS ARE GOING TO KEEP
COMING AND THEY'RE GOING TO BE
SOME PRETTY PAINFUL I KNOW
DENNIS HIS RETIREMENT BEING
IMMINENT THAT'S GOING TO LEAVE
A GIANT HOLE IN THE FLOWER
WORLD LOCALLY.
SO HE'S BEEN THERE WHAT SEVENTY
EIGHT SEVENTY EIGHT YEARS.
THE MARKET HIMSELF AT LEAST SO
WELL YEAH.
I MEAN IT'S AN IMPORTANT THING
TO TALK ABOUT BUT I GUESS I'M
JUST NOT SURE LIKE LOGISTICALLY
HOW IT WORKED BUT I HEAR YOU A
BIT JUST KIND OF SETTING THE
GROUNDWORK FOR A POTENTIAL
FUTURE WHERE THIS IS POSSIBLE.
BUT YOU KNOW I CAN SEE BOTH
SIDES AS WELL.
I GUESS ONE OTHER CONCERN KIND
OF THE OTHER SIDE OF IT TOO IS
TO ALTHOUGH IT'S GOOD TO KIND
OF MAKE SURE THAT WE'VE GOT BIG
ROBUST ORGANIZATIONS HERE THAT
IF WE IN UNCONTENTIOUS ARE
CREATING SOMETHING THAT REWARDS
INCUMBENTS AND THEN ESSENTIALLY
PULLS UP THE LADDER SO THAT A
SMALL SMALL OPERATOR REALLY
CAN'T WEDGE IN BECAUSE THERE'S
NO SPACE FOR THEM, THEN THAT
WOULD BE A LOSS FOR THE OF THE
FUTURE BECAUSE MOST FARMERS DO
DON'T START OUT AT A GIANT
SCALE.
THEY START SMALL SCALE AND THEN
THEY GROW AND SO THAT WE
SOMEHOW JUST SAID WELL YOU'RE
EITHER BIGGER OR YOU'RE NOT
HERE AND THAT WOULD BE A
PROBLEM.
>> I DON'T THINK WE'RE SAYING
THAT.
BUT THAT IS WE'RE WE'RE WE'RE
PLAYING WITH THAT MIX SO YEAH.
AND YOU KNOW, IT'S EXPENSIVE TO
HAVE FORESTALLS AT THE MARKET
SO IF YOU'RE REALLY NOT ABLE TO
MAKE UP THAT CASH FLOW LIKE
IT'S NOT REALLY WORTH EVEN
HAVING TO PAY YEARLY FOR IT IF
YOU'RE GOING TO BE USING
LIKE A
HANDFUL OF TIMES.
BUT I THINK THAT MAYBE THAT'S
WHERE THE CHOICE PART COMES IN
AGAIN.
YOU KNOW, THAT'S REALLY GOING
TO ONLY BE THEN FOR PEOPLE THAT
WANT TO MAKE THAT INVESTMENT
BECAUSE THEY THINK THEY REALLY
NEED IT.
YOU I CAN SEE OBVIOUSLY
CHAPNICK A LOT OF TIMES THEY
NEED MORE SPACE, RIGHT?
THERE'S PLENTY OF TIMES WHERE
THAT'S EVIDENT.
BUT THEY'RE IN ONE OF THOSE
DIFFICULT SITUATIONS WHERE
THEY'RE LITERALLY BETWEEN A
WALKWAY AND ANOTHER PERMANENT
VENDOR STALL.
SO THAT'S ANOTHER QUESTION
ABOUT ALL OF THIS IS WHAT THIS
COULD LOOK LIKE AND I DON'T
KNOW I MEAN IS THE SOLUTION
HAVING PEOPLE PAY YEARLY FOR A
FOR SALE OR IS IT EASIER FOR
PEOPLE JUST TO PAY YOU PER DAY
IF IT'S AVAILABLE?
I DON'T I'M NOT SURE WHAT THE
RIGHT ANSWER IS, BUT I THINK IT
IS GOOD THAT WE DO HAVE AT
LEAST SOME OPTION TO BEGIN WITH
AND IT'S NOT EITHER PERMANENT
FORESTALL OR NOTHING.
WE ARE ALREADY SORT OF IN
BETWEEN BUT WE HAVE THAT'S IT'S
AN OPEN QUESTION AND I THINK
THIS DIALOG WILL NEED TO
CONTINUE.
YOU KNOW, WHEN LISA COMES BACK
WHEN WE HAVE A NEW PERSON TO
BUT I REALLY LIKE THAT IDEA
OF SURVEYING PEOPLE BECAUSE
AGAIN I DON'T KNOW WHO WANTS A
FORSTALL.
I MEAN I CAN TELL YOU THE
GROSECLOSE WANT A PISTOL BUT
WHAT I MEAN WHO YEAH.
IS IT FOR PEOPLE OR IS IT
TWENTY FOUR PEOPLE.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT WAS FOR IT'S
A LOT EASIER TO PULL OFF THAN
IF BENEFITS EVERY PEOPLE EVERY
PERSON FORRESTAL'S WANT THAT
BECAUSE THEY THINK OH I'M NEVER
BUT THAT'S SORT OF WHAT YOU
WERE SAYING PETER WOULD IT
TRIGGER A RACE TO THE BOTTOM
WHERE PEOPLE ARE THINKING OH
WELL I'M ONLY GOING TO BE
COMPETITIVE IF I HAVE
FORESTALLS BECAUSE EVERYBODY
ELSE HAS FORESTALLS BECAUSE
THAT IS ALREADY HOW IT WORKS
WITH THE THREE STALL'S AND THEN
OF COURSE THEN PUTS BIGGER
IMPACTS ON THE PARKING
SITUATION AND ALL THAT OTHER
STUFF.
SO THEORETICALLY IT SOUNDS
GREAT JUST LOGISTICALLY I'M NOT
SURE WHAT THAT WOULD LOOK LIKE
IN OUR CURRENT MARKET SETUP.
OBVIOUSLY THE MARKET HAD THAT
BEFORE BUT THERE WAS A LOT LESS
UNDERSTAND ALSO THE RESULT
THERE IT WAS THAT THEY HAD LIKE
THE SECOND THE SECONDARY ROLE
BEHIND THE MAIN AISLE AND THERE
WAS A VIBRANT SIDEWALK THAT UP
WHERE THE BRIAN RACE STARTED
OUT AND YOU KNOW, THINGS THINGS
OF THAT NATURE.
SO I GUESS IF MORE PART OF THE
CONVERSATION OF WHAT DO WE WANT
THE MARKET TO LOOK LIKE IN THE
LONG TERM AND IS THIS SOMETHING
THAT'S REALLY GOING TO SET THE
GROUNDWORK FOR THAT IN A WAY WE
WON'T OR IS IT SOMETHING THAT'S
GOING TO BENEFIT JUST A SMALL
GROUP OF PEOPLE TO THE
DETRIMENT OF OTHERS?
I DON'T I'M NOT SURE.
I THINK IT'S DEFINITELY NEEDING
MORE CONVERSATION.
AND JUST TO CLARIFY TOO THAT
FOR THE FOURTH STOLLAR SECOND
THIRTY DOLLARS IS ALL THE SAME
RATE FOR DOLLAR IS IS THERE AN
ESCALATING RATE?
>> THERE IS AN ESCALATING RATE
FOR PAYING BY THE YEAR.
THERE IS NOT AN ESCALATING IF
YOU'RE PAYING DAILY SO AND SO
ACTUALLY IT'S A BETTER DEAL
TECHNIK WELL IT'S HARD TO SAY
IT DEPENDS ON HOW MANY TIMES
YOU'D BE USING THE FORCE IF
YOU'RE JUST USING IT A HANDFUL
OF TIMES IT MAKES WAY MORE
SENSE TO JUST PAY PER DAY.
YOU'RE GOING TO SAVE A LOT
OF MONEY OR BUT IF YOU KNOW
YOU'RE GOING TO BE USING IT AT
LEAST 15 TIMES IT MAKES MORE
SENSE FINANCIALLY TO HAVE THAT.
BUT THE THE MORE REAL ESTATE
YOU TAKE UP AT THE MARKET THERE
IS A INCREASE IN WHAT THE STORE
SALES COSTS AND THIS MIGHT BE A
WAY TO LIKE IF THE THIRD STALL
IS X AMOUNT OF DOLLARS IT COULD
BE EXPONENTIALLY MORE FOR THE
FOURTH.
I'M JUST TRYING TO THINK I'M
NOT TRYING TO SURE.
>> BUT PRICE COUNTERASSAULT.
YEAH, EXACTLY.
BUT YOU KNOW, THERE SHOULD
DEFINITELY BE SOME GIVE AND
TAKE IN THE WHOLE THING, RIGHT.
IT'S NOT I DON'T THINK I THINK
IT WOULD I PERSONALLY THINK IT
WOULD HELP THE MARKET.
I'D LIKE TO SEE HOW MANY PEOPLE
ACTUALLY WANT TO FORESTALL
BEFORE WE EVEN TALK ABOUT IT
TOO MUCH.
BUT I THINK THAT I THINK
PERSONALLY I THINK IN THE LONG
RUN IT WOULD HELP THE MARKET
BECAUSE IT'S GOING TO LIKE I
SAID, I CAN I CAN ALREADY SEE
AS FAR AS LONG AS I'VE BEEN
DOING THIS ON MY OWN I CAN
ALREADY SEE THE WHAT'S GOING ON
WITH MY COSTS.
RIGHT.
I ALMOST NEED TO MOVE A LITTLE
BIT MORE THAN I'M MOVING NOW
AND IN THE DISPLAY AREA IS SO
LIMITED THAT IT'S HARD TO DO
THAT AND I THINK THAT I THINK
IT WOULD BE GOOD FOR THE MARKET
AS WELL BECAUSE IT'S GOING TO
IT'S GOING TO LET SOME OF THE
BIGGER FIRMS CONTINUE.
I DON'T THINK THE LOGISTICS
WOULD REALLY BE AN ISSUE LIKE I
SAID, I THINK EVERYONE ANYONE
WHO WANTS A FOURTH I THINK
WOULD BE HAPPY TO HAVE A FOURTH
WHEREVER WHEREVER IT MIGHT BE
IN ALL THAT WOULD KIND OF GET
WORK ITSELF OUT.
>> YEAH.
AND THAT'S A REALLY GOOD POINT.
I THINK WE NEED TO JUST CANVAS
PEOPLE AND SEE WHO IS EVEN
REALLY INTERESTED IN THIS
BECAUSE IT'S PRETTY CLEAR
THERE'S AT LEAST FOUR PEOPLE
THAT I CAN THINK OF THAT ARE
INTERESTED BUT THERE MAY BE
OTHER PEOPLE IF THAT WERE ON
THE TABLE MAYBE PEOPLE HAVEN'T
TALKED ABOUT IT BECAUSE THEY
NEVER THOUGHT WAS EVEN A THING
POSSIBLE.
SO I LIKE THAT IDEA OF ASKING
FOLKS AND THEN SEEING WHERE
WE'RE AT BECAUSE THE OTHER PART
OF THIS TOO IS LIKE WELL IN
THIS TRANSITION TO EVERYONE
HAVING A FORSTALL ARE WE GOING
TO RESTRICT DAILY VENDORS
GETTING ANNUAL STATUS FOR THAT
YEAR ALSO ARE WE GOING TO HAVE
TWELVE STALLS AVAILABLE JUST
FOR THE STALL OR WOULD IT HAVE
TO BE SOMETHING WHERE YOU WOULD
HAVE TO BE BALANCE?
SO THAT'S ANOTHER THING THAT
AGAIN THAT'S A LITTLE BIT IN
ADVANCE OF WHERE WE'RE AT IN
THIS CONVERSATION.
BUT THAT'S SOMETHING TO THINK
ABOUT TOO IN TERMS OF , YOU
KNOW, PEOPLE THAT ARE ON THAT
PRECIPICE OF WAITING AT THEIR
SENIORITY AND AND MAY HAVE TO
PAUSE ON THAT TO MAKE THIS
HAPPEN.
BUT I THINK THE NEXT STEP IS
DEFINITELY PUTTING A SURVEY
TOGETHER OR ALSO JUST TALKING
TO PEOPLE IN PERSON OR BOTH.
RIGHT ABOUT THIS AND I WILL
START THAT PROJECT ON SATURDAY.
I'M SURE IT'S GOING TO COME UP
SO ANY LAST THOUGHTS THAT YOU
WANT TO ADD ANYTHING MORE?
NOT TO PUT YOU ON THE SPOT?
>> NO, I THINK I TOTALLY AGREE
THAT THE FIRST STEP IS JUST
FINDING OUT GAUGING INTEREST
BEFORE ANY OF THE ESTIMATES.
IT'S IT SEEMS LIKE IT'S STILL
PRETTY COMPLICATED OR NOT IF
IT'S RESOLVING THE PROBLEM FOR
ONE PERSON VERSUS TWENTY
DIFFERENT.
RIGHT, TECTOR APPROACHING IT.
>> YEAH, I GUESS ONE QUESTION
THAT MIGHT COME UP TO ME IS
WITH THE SURVEY OF LIKE WOULD
YOU BE INTERESTED DOING THIS
AND TO IT'S LIKE ONE TO FIVE
WHETHER YOU'RE STRONGLY
SUPPORTIVE, NEUTRAL, STRONGLY
OPPOSED BECAUSE THERE MIGHT BE
PEOPLE WHO WOULDN'T DO IT AND
THEY'RE STRONGLY OPPOSED AND
THAT'S THAT'S YOU KNOW TOO I
JUST DON'T HAVE ANY I HAVE NO
IDEA.
RIGHT.
YEAH, IT'S HARD TO SAY.
>> YEAH THAT'S A GOOD POINT AND
EVEN SOME LEVEL OF THIS DOESN'T
SOUND SILLY BUT LIKE ARE YOU
INTERESTED WOULD YOU WANT TO
IMPLEMENT THIS S&P VERSUS IS
THIS SOMETHING YOU'D LIKE TO
HAVE IN YOUR POCKET FOR THREE
YEARS FROM NOW?
RIGHT.
YEAH.
SO LIKE THE URGENCY FACTOR FOR
SURE.
>> YEAH.
AND ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS
TOO IS THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF PEOPLE THAT USE LIKE AN
EXTRA PARKING SPOT FOR PRODUCTS
BECAUSE THEY DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
SPACE.
I ALSO WONDER IF WE SHOULD PUT
SOMETHING IN THE SURVEY THAT
SAYS YOU KNOW, LIKE WOULD YOU
HAVE WOULD YOU USE LESS PARKING
SPACES IF YOU HAD A FORCED OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT BECAUSE
THAT MIGHT SOLVE THAT PROBLEM
POTENTIALLY TOO.
BUT WE'LL ADD THAT GREAT LIST.
GO AHEAD AND STOP SHARING.
>> YOU ALL SHOULD HAVE THIS IN
YOUR EMAIL IF YOU WANT TO TAKE
A LOOK LATER.
REAL GOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THEN MOVING ON TO ITEM NEW
BUSINESS NON AGENDA ITEMS THEY
WOULD HAVE ANY OF THIS.
>> YEAH, I REALIZE I FORGOT TO
PUT THIS INTO THE AGENDA.
IT'S VERY BASIC BUT GOOD
NEWS IS WE ARE GETTING OUR
BOOKS CONTRACT FOR THIS YEAR.
IT IS COMING ANY TIME NOW FOR
THOSE UNAWARE THIS IS THE
PROGRAM THAT IS ATTACHED TO
SNAP FOOD STAMPS THAT ALLOWS
FOLKS ON FOOD ASSISTANCE TO
SHOP AT THE MARKET FOR
UNFORTUNATELY THE FUNDING HAS
BEEN CUT FOR DOUBLE UP FOOD
BUCKS.
SO INSTEAD OF DOING A TWENTY
DOLLAR PER DAY FREE MATCH THAT
MATCHES HOW MUCH MONEY THEY
TAKE OFF OF THEIR EBT CARD.
IT IS NOW TEN DOLLARS PER DAY.
WE ARE HOPING TO COLLABORATE
WITH THEIR FOOD NETWORK TO
MAYBE LOBBY THE STATE BECAUSE
WHAT HAD HAPPENED WAS THEY
ANTICIPATED GETTING ABOUT FOUR
MILLION DOLLARS FROM THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN TO FUND THIS
PROGRAM.
THEY UNFORTUNATELY GOT LESS
THAN ONE MILLION.
SO IT'S QUITE, QUITE A DEFICIT
AND THIS IS HAS NOTHING TO DO
WITH THE ALREADY HAPPENING AS
WELL REDUCTIONS TO FOOD
ASSISTANCE NOW THAT WE'RE FAR
ENOUGH AWAY FROM THE PANDEMIC
TO HAVE THOSE EXTRA THINGS TO
THE FOLKS ARE NOWHERE MICHIGAN
FAMILIES WE'RE GETTING NINETY
FIVE DOLLARS EXTRA PER MONTH ON
FOOD ASSISTANCE DUE TO THE
PANDEMIC AND THERE WAS ALSO THE
PANDEMIC WHICH WAS CARDS THAT
WERE GIVEN TO FOLKS WHOSE KIDS
ARE ON FREE AND REDUCED LUNCH
PROGRAMS AT AREA PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BECAUSE THE SCHOOLS WERE CLOSED
AND THEY COULDN'T ACCESS THAT
SO
THAT'S BOTH A POSITIVE AND
NEGATIVE.
IT'S BEEN REALLY HARD OF A
TRANSITION.
ALEX, I ACTUALLY DID SOME
OUTREACH ABOUT THIS TO A SENIOR
LIVING COMMUNITY WHERE THE
MAJORITY OF FOLKS SPEAK
MANDARIN IN THE NORTH SIDE
OF ANN ARBOR BECAUSE THAT IS A
LARGE POPULATION THAT USES
THESE BENEFITS AND THE LANGUAGE
BARRIER IS SOMETHING THAT HAS
BEEN A BIG STUMBLING BLOCK FOR
US.
BUT THE GOOD NEWS IS WITH THAT
PRESENTATION WE HAD A
TRANSLATOR PRESENT AND WE
SEEMED TO HAVE MADE A LOT
OF BREAKTHROUGHS BUT
UNFORTUNATELY TO THE
BREAKTHROUGH WAS HEY, BY THE
WAY, YOUR BENEFITS DON'T GO AS
FAR AS THEY USED TO.
SO THAT'S THE STATUS OF THAT.
WITH THAT SAID, WE'RE ALSO
STILL BE DOING THE SENIOR
PROJECT FASHION WEEK PROJECT
FRESH AGAIN THIS YEAR BUT A
BRAND NEW PROGRAM FOR US.
WE'VE BEEN TRYING TO GET INTO
IT FOR YEARS.
THAT'S THE PRESCRIPTION FOR
HEALTH PROGRAM.
SO IF YOU'RE NOT FAMILIAR, THIS
IS SOMETHING RUN BY THE WASHOE
COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
IT'S SUPER LOCAL TO US.
HOW IT WORKS IS CUSTOMER GO TO
THEIR DOCTOR AND THEY GET A
PRESCRIPTION WHICH IS IN
ESSENCE MONEY THAT THEY CAN
THEN SPEND ON MICHIGAN GROWN
FRUITS AND VEGETABLES.
SO WE HAVE BEEN TOLD IN THE
PAST THAT WE HAD TO TO INCOME
OF A COMMUNITY TO USE THIS
PROGRAM EVEN THOUGH WE HAVE THE
HIGHEST RATE OF FOOD ASSISTANCE
OF ANY FARMER'S MARKET IN THE
COUNTY BUT ANY HELP SO THAT'S A
REALLY GREAT THING.
WE JUST NEED TO NAVIGATE A FEW
FEDERAL PROGRAMS TO BE ABLE TO
GET THAT.
BUT THAT'S SOMETHING THAT'S
COMING DOWN THE PIKE WHICH IS
BRAND NEW TO US THIS YEAR.
IT'S BEEN HAPPENING OTHER
FARMERS MARKETS FOR I WANT TO
SAY EIGHT IF TEN YEARS WE'RE
FINALLY ABLE TO GET IN FOR FOUR
THIS YEAR.
SO THAT'S A BIG DEAL.
BUT YES, THAT WAS THE PIECE ON
FOOD ASSISTANCE THAT I FELT
THAT I NEEDED TO MENTION THAT I
DID NOT PUT IN THE AGENDA PRIOR
.
SO SORRY.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
FOR ANY OTHER NEW ITEM, THE
BUSINESS OTHER
THAN WE DON'T
JUST SECOND PUBLIC COMMENT NOT
LIMITED TO AGENDA.
ALL RIGHT.
I SEE YOUR HANDS
GO HIDE KOLLIN
HELLO.
THIS IS ACTUALLY JAKE GATES.
>> OH HEY.
I HAD A COUPLE OF COMMENTS ON
THE FOURTH STOP TOPIC IF THAT'S
ALL RIGHT.
>> OH, THAT'S GREAT.
GO AHEAD.
>> MOSTLY I WANTED TO KIND
OF ECHO SOME OF THE POINTS THAT
JEFF HAD MADE AND I THINK
THEY'RE GOOD AND AND PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT POINTS.
THE FIRST ONE BEING KIND OF THE
SITUATION FOR MULTIGENERATIONAL
FAMILY FARMS AND TRYING TO MAKE
THAT TRANSITION WHERE YOU'RE
SUPPORTING MULTIPLE HOUSEHOLDS
THAT THERE CAN BE A CHALLENGE
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU START
LOOKING AT HEALTH CARE COSTS
AND EVERYTHING THAT'S
ASSOCIATED WITH SOMEONE THAT'S
A FULL TIME FARMER.
AND SO YOU KNOW THAT'S
APPLICABLE TO OUR INFANTS.
I THINK THE MOTHERS IN A POLICY
LIKE THIS WOULD HELP TO I
BELIEVE IT WOULD HELP TO ENSURE
YOU HOPEFULLY A HIGHER
PERCENTAGE OF LONGEVITY
OF MULTIGENERATIONAL VENDORS.
AND I THINK THERE'S SOME
DISTINCT ADVANTAGES TO HAVING
AND THE OTHER THING I WAS GOING
TO MENTION IS IT DOESN'T
NECESSARILY HAVE TO BE
MULTIGENERATIONAL FAMILIES.
IT'S EVEN WHEN SOMEONE'S TRYING
TO PERPETUATE THEIR THEIR
BUSINESS AND THEIR
INFRASTRUCTURE WITH A NON
FAMILY MEMBER YOU'RE GOING TO
NEED TO HAVE A TIME WHERE
THERE'S A TRANSITION WHERE IT'S
SUPPORTING, YOU KNOW, THE OLD
GUARD AND ALSO THE NEW FOLKS
MAYBE THE LEARNING AND GETTING
EXPERIENCE SO EITHER WAY THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT WOULD HELP
SUPPORT LONGER STANDING VENDORS
AND I THINK WHERE THAT REALLY
COMES AS AN ASSET TO THE MARKET
IS THE VALUE THE LONG STANDING
MEMBERS BRING AND PRIMARILY
WHAT I HAVE IN IS THE
INVESTMENTS IN INFRASTRUCTURE
AT HOME.
SO WHETHER IT BE A PRODUCE
VENDOR THAT'S ABLE TO, YOU
KNOW, MAYBE GROW A LITTLE MORE
CHALLENGING CROPS BECAUSE THEY
HAVE THE EXPERIENCE OR THE
EQUIPMENT INFRASTRUCTURE OR THE
DIFFERENT GROWING PRACTICES
THEY PERFECTED OR ANOTHER
EXAMPLE MIGHT BE LIKE ORCHARD
GROWERS WHERE YOU'VE GOT JUST A
TREMENDOUS INVESTMENT IN
ORCHARD STACK BACK AT HOME AND
THAT'S THAT'S REALLY A
MULTIGENERATIONAL INVESTMENT
ESPECIALLY SOMEONE THAT'S IN 15
YEARS AWAY FROM RETIREMENT.
IT'S TOUGH TO PLANT TREES IF
YOU DON'T HAVE SOMEONE COMING
AFTER.
SO THOSE ARE JUST TWO EXAMPLES
I THOUGHT WHY IT'S A GOOD THING
FOR THE MARKET TO BE SURE TO
SUPPORT AND ALL FOR BRINGING IN
NEW VENDORS AND YOUNG BLOOD AND
DIFFERENT IDEAS OR DIFFERENT
PRODUCTS.
BUT I THINK A BLEND IS
IMPORTANT THAT YOU HAVE
LONGEVITY AND AND THE VALUE
THAT THAT BRINGS AS WELL AS
YOUNGER VENDORS I GUESS MAYBE
ONE THEY THOUGHT OR OBSERVATION
THAT I WOULD HAVE ON THE TOPIC
OF , YOU KNOW, CONCERN ABOUT
WHETHER YOUNG VENDORS ARE ABLE
TO ENTER THE MARKET.
MY EXPERIENCE AND I'VE BEEN
COMING TO THE MARKET REGULARLY
SINCE 2000 SO THAT'S ABOUT 22
YEARS DAILY VENDORS WERE
WAITING SOMETHING MORE LIKE TEN
YEARS TO GET ANNUAL STUFF BACK
WHEN I FIRST STARTED COMING AND
I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS NOW BUT
I WOULD GUESS IT'S SOMETHING
LIKE TWO YEARS.
>> I'M NOT SURE IT'S MORE LIKE
SIX OR SEVEN IS IT REALLY?
YEAH BUT STILL I THINK THE
TREND IS THE WAITING LIST FOR
YOUNGER VENDORS IS LESS THAN IT
USED TO BE.
>> YEAH.
THE OTHER THING THAT I JUST
WANTED TO KIND OF MAKE A POINT
OF IS THAT I THINK A POLICY
LIKE THIS WOULD SUPPORT VENDORS
THAT ARE BRINGING DISPLAYS AND
SUPPLIES TO THE MARKET THAT
LASTS THE MARKET ALL DAY LONG.
I THINK THAT WE ALSO HAVE A
TREND THAT THE MARKET IS MORE
VENDORS COME IN THAT PERHAPS
OUR HOBBY FARMERS OR PART TIME
FARMERS AND NOT THAT THERE'S
NOT A PLACE FOR THEM BUT IF THE
MARKET BECOMES OVERWHELMING
OVERWHELMINGLY THAT TYPE
OF FARMER THE MARKET IS EMPTY
AT NOON BECAUSE YOU NEED
VENDORS THAT BRING AN AMPLE
SUPPLY AND ARE ARE ANGLING FOR
MAKING A LIVING THAT WILL
SUPPLY THE MARKET INTO THE
AFTERNOON.
AND I'VE ALSO NOTICED THAT
TREND AS WE'VE KIND OF WENT
ALONG HERE THE LONG ISLAND
PARTICULAR LATE THE DAY IS CAN
BE PRETTY BARE.
SO I THINK THAT'S A BAD THING
FOR THE MARKET AND MAYBE A
REASON TO CONSIDER SUPPORTING
THE TYPE OF VENDORS THAT CAN
BRING A SERIOUS SUPPLY TO THE
MARKET SO THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF MY OBSERVATIONS AND I
UNDERSTAND THERE'S TWO SIDES
BUT FROM FROM MY PERSPECTIVE
THIS SEEMS LIKE A GOOD IDEA AND
I I AGREE WITH JEFF THAT I JUST
GIVE IT TIME AND I THINK THAT
IT WILL WORK ITS WAY.
FOLKS WILL HAVE TO WAIT THEIR
TURN TO GET THE CONVENIENCE
STORE RIGHT NEXT TO THEIRS.
SO THAT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN
IN A MONTH OR EVEN IN A COUPLE
OF YEARS.
BUT IT WILL LAY THE GROUNDWORK
THAT FOLKS CAN WORK TOWARDS
THAT.
>> BUT THOSE ARE MY THOUGHTS.
>> EXALOGIC, THANK YOU
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO SEEING NO OTHER MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC FOR COMMENT,
WE'LL MOVE ON TO ITEM BILL
ADJOURNMENT.
THANK YOU ALL.
SIX FORTY THREE OR THREE AND
WE'RE ALMOST AT SPRINGS'.
WE ALMOST MADE IT GOOD.
HEY HEY.
AND LOOKS LIKE ONE MORE CALL
TODAY.
>> WHAT EXACTLY DOES IT LOOK
LIKE?
ONE MORE COLD MARKET DAY AND
THEN IT SHOULD START RIGHT?
>> YEAH.
THIS SATURDAY AS I WAS TOLD TO
STAY AWAY.
>> WELL, HAPPY ST. PATRICK'S
DAY EVERYONE AND I'LL SEE I GET
THANK YOU LIKE